In this third assignment, we move from preprocessing to language modelling. Language models
assign probabilities to sequences of words. Instead of only counting or normalizing tokens, we
now attempt to model how words follow each other. This allows us to:

    - Estimate the probability of a word given its context
    - Compare different modelling assumptions
    - Generate new text fragments from a learned statistical model

We will focus on n-gram language models for now, specifically bigrams and trigrams.

ASSIGNMENT
Create both bigram and trigram language models for the corpus of book texts using word
tokens (We will come back to BPE tokenisation when we create language models using neural networks). 
For each 𝑛-gram with 𝑛 ∈ {2, 3} create a model both with and without Laplace smoothing (add one).
Using both the bi- and trigram models in the unsmoothed versions, implement a method to
predict the next word for a given sequence of words (based on the last, or the last two words of
the sequence). Test your sentence generating method by calling it repeatedly for a number of
times, each time adding to the word sequence.
Reflect on the quality of the generated sentence (fragments).
Note: you should probably just remove all non-word characters in your pre-processing. Possibly
keep an end-of-sentence token.

DELIVERABLES
1. Implementation
You will implement the analysis described under Assignment using Python and libraries of your
choice. Please enclose your implementation (and only the implementation) of the previous
assignment (pre-processing the dataset) and make sure these scripts work when executed in
the correct order, given the original dataset, without further intervention.

2. Documentation
Submit your documented implementation, for example, in the form of a zipped folder
containing Python scripts or notebooks. Make sure to document the choices made for the
analysis described in this assignment. And, most importantly, document the outcome of your
analysis (best model) and reflection on the quality of the predictions made in clear and
descriptive way.

3. Individual contribution and AI-use
Describe which parts of the assignment you have completed and for which aspects you were
responsible.
Include an appendix explaining whether and how AI was used in completing the assignment.


DIVISION OF LABOUR

Jessie
Contributions:
 - Implemented preprocess_corpus()
 - Implemented build_ngram_counts() 
 - Implemented build_ngram_model() 
 - Implemented build_ngram_model_laplace() 
 - Structured the main modelling pipeline to include the implemented functions

Sources:
 - How do you create nested dict in Python?
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/16333296/how-do-you-create-nested-dict-in-python
 - CountVectorizer
    https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.feature_extraction.text.CountVectorizer.html
 - collections — Container datatypes
    https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.defaultdict
 - n-grams in python.
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17531684/n-grams-in-python-four-five-six-grams

AI usage:
 - Used AI to gather appropriate sources for the assignment
 - Used AI to add and standardize function comments.
 - Requested minor guidance on improving code structure and readability, which was then manually implemented and adjusted.


Yvonne
Contributions:
 - 

AI usage:
 - 
