ГҜВ»ВҝThe Project Gutenberg eBook of The Count of Monte Cristo
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Count of Monte Cristo

Author: Alexandre Dumas
        Auguste Maquet

Release date: January 1, 1998 [eBook #1184]
                Most recently updated: August 9, 2025

Language: English

Credits: Anonymous Project Gutenberg Volunteers, Dan Muller and David Widger


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO ***




THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO

by Alexandre Dumas [pГғВЁre]




Contents


 VOLUME ONE
Chapter 1. MarseillesГўВҖВ”The Arrival
Chapter 2. Father and Son
Chapter 3. The Catalans
Chapter 4. Conspiracy
Chapter 5. The Marriage Feast
Chapter 6. The Deputy Procureur du Roi
Chapter 7. The Examination
Chapter 8. The ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf
Chapter 9. The Evening of the Betrothal
Chapter 10. The KingГўВҖВҷs Closet at the Tuileries
Chapter 11. The Corsican Ogre
Chapter 12. Father and Son
Chapter 13. The Hundred Days
Chapter 14. The Two Prisoners
Chapter 15. Number 34 and Number 27
Chapter 16. A Learned Italian
Chapter 17. The AbbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs Chamber
Chapter 18. The Treasure
Chapter 19. The Third Attack
Chapter 20. The Cemetery of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf
Chapter 21. The Island of Tiboulen
Chapter 22. The Smugglers
Chapter 23. The Island of Monte Cristo
Chapter 24. The Secret Cave
Chapter 25. The Unknown
Chapter 26. The Pont du Gard Inn
Chapter 27. The Story

 VOLUME TWO
Chapter 28. The Prison Register
Chapter 29. The House of Morrel & Son
Chapter 30. The Fifth of September
Chapter 31. Italy: Sinbad the Sailor
Chapter 32. The Waking
Chapter 33. Roman Bandits
Chapter 34. The Colosseum
Chapter 35. La Mazzolata
Chapter 36. The Carnival at Rome.
Chapter 37. The Catacombs of Saint Sebastian
Chapter 38. The Rendezvous
Chapter 39. The Guests
Chapter 40. The Breakfast
Chapter 41. The Presentation
Chapter 42. Monsieur Bertuccio
Chapter 43. The House at Auteuil
Chapter 44. The Vendetta
Chapter 45. The Rain of Blood
Chapter 46. Unlimited Credit
Chapter 47. The Dappled Grays

 VOLUME THREE
Chapter 48. Ideology
Chapter 49. HaydГғВ©e
Chapter 50. The Morrel Family
Chapter 51. Pyramus and Thisbe
Chapter 52. Toxicology
Chapter 53. Robert le Diable
Chapter 54. A Flurry in Stocks
Chapter 55. Major Cavalcanti
Chapter 56. Andrea Cavalcanti
Chapter 57. In the Lucern Patch
Chapter 58. M. Noirtier de Villefort
Chapter 59. The Will
Chapter 60. The Telegraph
Chapter 61. How a Gardener May Get Rid of the Dormice
Chapter 62. Ghosts
Chapter 63. The Dinner
Chapter 64. The Beggar
Chapter 65. A Conjugal Scene
Chapter 66. Matrimonial Projects
Chapter 67. The Office of the KingГўВҖВҷs Attorney
Chapter 68. A Summer Ball
Chapter 69. The Inquiry
Chapter 70. The Ball
Chapter 71. Bread and Salt
Chapter 72. Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran
Chapter 73. The Promise

VOLUME FOUR
Chapter 74. The Villefort Family Vault
Chapter 75. A Signed Statement
Chapter 76. Progress of Cavalcanti the Younger
Chapter 77. HaydГғВ©e
Chapter 78. We hear From Yanina
Chapter 79. The Lemonade
Chapter 80. The Accusation
Chapter 81. The Room of the Retired Baker
Chapter 82. The Burglary
Chapter 83. The Hand of God
Chapter 84. Beauchamp
Chapter 85. The Journey
Chapter 86. The Trial
Chapter 87. The Challenge
Chapter 88. The Insult
Chapter 89. The Night
Chapter 90. The Meeting
Chapter 91. Mother and Son
Chapter 92. The Suicide
Chapter 93. Valentine
Chapter 94. MaximilianГўВҖВҷs Avowal
Chapter 95. Father and Daughter

VOLUME FIVE
Chapter 96. The Contract
Chapter 97. The Departure for Belgium
Chapter 98. The Bell and Bottle Tavern
Chapter 99. The Law
Chapter 100. The Apparition
Chapter 101. Locusta
Chapter 102. Valentine
Chapter 103. Maximilian
Chapter 104. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ Signature
Chapter 105. The Cemetery of PГғВЁre-Lachaise
Chapter 106. Dividing the Proceeds
Chapter 107. The LionsГўВҖВҷ Den
Chapter 108. The Judge
Chapter 109. The Assizes
Chapter 110. The Indictment
Chapter 111. Expiation
Chapter 112. The Departure
Chapter 113. The Past
Chapter 114. Peppino
Chapter 115. Luigi VampaГўВҖВҷs Bill of Fare
Chapter 116. The Pardon
Chapter 117. The Fifth of October



VOLUME ONE



 Chapter 1. MarseillesГўВҖВ”The Arrival

On the 24th of February, 1815, the look-out at Notre-Dame de la Garde
signalled the three-master, the _Pharaon_ from Smyrna, Trieste, and
Naples.

As usual, a pilot put off immediately, and rounding the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf,
got on board the vessel between Cape Morgiou and Rion island.

Immediately, and according to custom, the ramparts of Fort Saint-Jean
were covered with spectators; it is always an event at Marseilles for a
ship to come into port, especially when this ship, like the _Pharaon_,
has been built, rigged, and laden at the old Phocee docks, and belongs
to an owner of the city.

The ship drew on and had safely passed the strait, which some volcanic
shock has made between the Calasareigne and Jaros islands; had doubled
PomГғВЁgue, and approached the harbor under topsails, jib, and spanker,
but so slowly and sedately that the idlers, with that instinct which is
the forerunner of evil, asked one another what misfortune could have
happened on board. However, those experienced in navigation saw plainly
that if any accident had occurred, it was not to the vessel herself,
for she bore down with all the evidence of being skilfully handled, the
anchor a-cockbill, the jib-boom guys already eased off, and standing by
the side of the pilot, who was steering the _Pharaon_ towards the
narrow entrance of the inner port, was a young man, who, with activity
and vigilant eye, watched every motion of the ship, and repeated each
direction of the pilot.

The vague disquietude which prevailed among the spectators had so much
affected one of the crowd that he did not await the arrival of the
vessel in harbor, but jumping into a small skiff, desired to be pulled
alongside the _Pharaon_, which he reached as she rounded into La
RГғВ©serve basin.

When the young man on board saw this person approach, he left his
station by the pilot, and, hat in hand, leaned over the shipГўВҖВҷs
bulwarks.

He was a fine, tall, slim young fellow of eighteen or twenty, with
black eyes, and hair as dark as a ravenГўВҖВҷs wing; and his whole
appearance bespoke that calmness and resolution peculiar to men
accustomed from their cradle to contend with danger.

ГўВҖВңAh, is it you, DantГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ cried the man in the skiff. ГўВҖВңWhatГўВҖВҷs the
matter? and why have you such an air of sadness aboard?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA great misfortune, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, ГўВҖВңa great
misfortune, for me especially! Off Civita Vecchia we lost our brave
Captain Leclere.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the cargo?ГўВҖВқ inquired the owner, eagerly.

ГўВҖВңIs all safe, M. Morrel; and I think you will be satisfied on that
head. But poor Captain LeclereГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat happened to him?ГўВҖВқ asked the owner, with an air of considerable
resignation. ГўВҖВңWhat happened to the worthy captain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe died.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFell into the sea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir, he died of brain-fever in dreadful agony.ГўВҖВқ Then turning to
the crew, he said, ГўВҖВңBear a hand there, to take in sail!ГўВҖВқ

All hands obeyed, and at once the eight or ten seamen who composed the
crew, sprang to their respective stations at the spanker brails and
outhaul, topsail sheets and halyards, the jib downhaul, and the topsail
clewlines and buntlines. The young sailor gave a look to see that his
orders were promptly and accurately obeyed, and then turned again to
the owner.

ГўВҖВңAnd how did this misfortune occur?ГўВҖВқ inquired the latter, resuming the
interrupted conversation.

0023m



ГўВҖВңAlas, sir, in the most unexpected manner. After a long talk with the
harbor-master, Captain Leclere left Naples greatly disturbed in mind.
In twenty-four hours he was attacked by a fever, and died three days
afterwards. We performed the usual burial service, and he is at his
rest, sewn up in his hammock with a thirty-six-pound shot at his head
and his heels, off El Giglio island. We bring to his widow his sword
and cross of honor. It was worth while, truly,ГўВҖВқ added the young man
with a melancholy smile, ГўВҖВңto make war against the English for ten
years, and to die in his bed at last, like everybody else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you see, Edmond,ГўВҖВқ replied the owner, who appeared more comforted
at every moment, ГўВҖВңwe are all mortal, and the old must make way for the
young. If not, why, there would be no promotion; and since you assure
me that the cargoГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs all safe and sound, M. Morrel, take my word for it; and I advise
you not to take 25,000 francs for the profits of the voyage.ГўВҖВқ

Then, as they were just passing the Round Tower, the young man shouted:
ГўВҖВңStand by there to lower the topsails and jib; brail up the spanker!ГўВҖВқ

The order was executed as promptly as it would have been on board a
man-of-war.

ГўВҖВңLet goГўВҖВ”and clue up!ГўВҖВқ At this last command all the sails were lowered,
and the vessel moved almost imperceptibly onwards.

ГўВҖВңNow, if you will come on board, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, observing the
ownerГўВҖВҷs impatience, ГўВҖВңhere is your supercargo, M. Danglars, coming out
of his cabin, who will furnish you with every particular. As for me, I
must look after the anchoring, and dress the ship in mourning.ГўВҖВқ

The owner did not wait for a second invitation. He seized a rope which
DantГғВЁs flung to him, and with an activity that would have done credit
to a sailor, climbed up the side of the ship, while the young man,
going to his task, left the conversation to Danglars, who now came
towards the owner. He was a man of twenty-five or twenty-six years of
age, of unprepossessing countenance, obsequious to his superiors,
insolent to his subordinates; and this, in addition to his position as
responsible agent on board, which is always obnoxious to the sailors,
made him as much disliked by the crew as Edmond DantГғВЁs was beloved by
them.

ГўВҖВңWell, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңyou have heard of the misfortune
that has befallen us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYesГўВҖВ”yes: poor Captain Leclere! He was a brave and an honest man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd a first-rate seaman, one who had seen long and honorable service,
as became a man charged with the interests of a house so important as
that of Morrel & Son,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ replied the owner, glancing after DantГғВЁs, who was watching the
anchoring of his vessel, ГўВҖВңit seems to me that a sailor needs not be so
old as you say, Danglars, to understand his business, for our friend
Edmond seems to understand it thoroughly, and not to require
instruction from anyone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, darting at Edmond a look gleaming with hate.
ГўВҖВңYes, he is young, and youth is invariably self-confident. Scarcely was
the captainГўВҖВҷs breath out of his body when he assumed the command
without consulting anyone, and he caused us to lose a day and a half at
the Island of Elba, instead of making for Marseilles direct.ГўВҖВқ

0025m



ГўВҖВңAs to taking command of the vessel,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel, ГўВҖВңthat was his
duty as captainГўВҖВҷs mate; as to losing a day and a half off the Island of
Elba, he was wrong, unless the vessel needed repairs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe vessel was in as good condition as I am, and as, I hope you are,
M. Morrel, and this day and a half was lost from pure whim, for the
pleasure of going ashore, and nothing else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ said the shipowner, turning towards the young man, ГўВҖВңcome this
way!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn a moment, sir,ГўВҖВқ answered DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңand IГўВҖВҷm with you.ГўВҖВқ Then calling
to the crew, he said, ГўВҖВңLet go!ГўВҖВқ

The anchor was instantly dropped, and the chain ran rattling through
the port-hole. DantГғВЁs continued at his post in spite of the presence of
the pilot, until this manГ…В“uvre was completed, and then he added,
ГўВҖВңHalf-mast the colors, and square the yards!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou see,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңhe fancies himself captain already, upon my
word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd so, in fact, he is,ГўВҖВқ said the owner.

ГўВҖВңExcept your signature and your partnerГўВҖВҷs, M. Morrel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd why should he not have this?ГўВҖВқ asked the owner; ГўВҖВңhe is young, it is
true, but he seems to me a thorough seaman, and of full experience.ГўВҖВқ

A cloud passed over DanglarsГўВҖВҷ brow.

ГўВҖВңYour pardon, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, approaching, ГўВҖВңthe vessel now
rides at anchor, and I am at your service. You hailed me, I think?ГўВҖВқ

Danglars retreated a step or two. ГўВҖВңI wished to inquire why you stopped
at the Island of Elba?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know, sir; it was to fulfil the last instructions of Captain
Leclere, who, when dying, gave me a packet for Marshal Bertrand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen did you see him, Edmond?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe marshal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel looked around him, and then, drawing DantГғВЁs on one side, he said
suddenlyГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңAnd how is the emperor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, as far as I could judge from the sight of him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou saw the emperor, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe entered the marshalГўВҖВҷs apartment while I was there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you spoke to him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, it was he who spoke to me, sir,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, with a smile.

ГўВҖВңAnd what did he say to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAsked me questions about the vessel, the time she left Marseilles, the
course she had taken, and what was her cargo. I believe, if she had not
been laden, and I had been her master, he would have bought her. But I
told him I was only mate, and that she belonged to the firm of Morrel &
Son. ГўВҖВҳAh, yes,ГўВҖВҷ he said, ГўВҖВҳI know them. The Morrels have been shipowners
from father to son; and there was a Morrel who served in the same
regiment with me when I was in garrison at Valence.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu!_ and that is true!ГўВҖВқ cried the owner, greatly delighted. ГўВҖВңAnd
that was Policar Morrel, my uncle, who was afterwards a captain.
DantГғВЁs, you must tell my uncle that the emperor remembered him, and you
will see it will bring tears into the old soldierГўВҖВҷs eyes. Come, come,ГўВҖВқ
continued he, patting EdmondГўВҖВҷs shoulder kindly, ГўВҖВңyou did very right,
DantГғВЁs, to follow Captain LeclereГўВҖВҷs instructions, and touch at Elba,
although if it were known that you had conveyed a packet to the
marshal, and had conversed with the emperor, it might bring you into
trouble.ГўВҖВқ

0027m



ГўВҖВңHow could that bring me into trouble, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңfor I did
not even know of what I was the bearer; and the emperor merely made
such inquiries as he would of the first comer. But, pardon me, here are
the health officers and the customs inspectors coming alongside.ГўВҖВқ And
the young man went to the gangway. As he departed, Danglars approached,
and said,ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңWell, it appears that he has given you satisfactory reasons for his
landing at Porto-Ferrajo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, most satisfactory, my dear Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, so much the better,ГўВҖВқ said the supercargo; ГўВҖВңfor it is not
pleasant to think that a comrade has not done his duty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDantГғВЁs has done his,ГўВҖВқ replied the owner, ГўВҖВңand that is not saying much.
It was Captain Leclere who gave orders for this delay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTalking of Captain Leclere, has not DantГғВЁs given you a letter from
him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo me?ГўВҖВ”noГўВҖВ”was there one?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe that, besides the packet, Captain Leclere confided a letter
to his care.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf what packet are you speaking, Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, that which DantГғВЁs left at Porto-Ferrajo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow do you know he had a packet to leave at Porto-Ferrajo?ГўВҖВқ

Danglars turned very red.

ГўВҖВңI was passing close to the door of the captainГўВҖВҷs cabin, which was half
open, and I saw him give the packet and letter to DantГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe did not speak to me of it,ГўВҖВқ replied the shipowner; ГўВҖВңbut if there be
any letter he will give it to me.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars reflected for a moment. ГўВҖВңThen, M. Morrel, I beg of you,ГўВҖВқ said
he, ГўВҖВңnot to say a word to DantГғВЁs on the subject. I may have been
mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment the young man returned; Danglars withdrew.

ГўВҖВңWell, my dear DantГғВЁs, are you now free?ГўВҖВқ inquired the owner.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have not been long detained.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo. I gave the custom-house officers a copy of our bill of lading; and
as to the other papers, they sent a man off with the pilot, to whom I
gave them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you have nothing more to do here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNoГўВҖВ”everything is all right now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you can come and dine with me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI really must ask you to excuse me, M. Morrel. My first visit is due
to my father, though I am not the less grateful for the honor you have
done me.ГўВҖВқ

0029m



ГўВҖВңRight, DantГғВЁs, quite right. I always knew you were a good son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd,ГўВҖВқ inquired DantГғВЁs, with some hesitation, ГўВҖВңdo you know how my
father is?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I believe, my dear Edmond, though I have not seen him lately.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, he likes to keep himself shut up in his little room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat proves, at least, that he has wanted for nothing during your
absence.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs smiled. ГўВҖВңMy father is proud, sir, and if he had not a meal left,
I doubt if he would have asked anything from anyone, except from
Heaven.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, after this first visit has been made we shall count on
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI must again excuse myself, M. Morrel, for after this first visit has
been paid I have another which I am most anxious to pay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, DantГғВЁs, I forgot that there was at the Catalans someone who
expects you no less impatiently than your fatherГўВҖВ”the lovely MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs blushed.

ГўВҖВңAh, ha,ГўВҖВқ said the shipowner, ГўВҖВңI am not in the least surprised, for she
has been to me three times, inquiring if there were any news of the
_Pharaon_. _Peste!_ Edmond, you have a very handsome mistress!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe is not my mistress,ГўВҖВқ replied the young sailor, gravely; ГўВҖВңshe is my
betrothed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSometimes one and the same thing,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, with a smile.

ГўВҖВңNot with us, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWell, well, my dear Edmond,ГўВҖВқ continued the owner, ГўВҖВңdonГўВҖВҷt let me detain
you. You have managed my affairs so well that I ought to allow you all
the time you require for your own. Do you want any money?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir; I have all my pay to takeГўВҖВ”nearly three monthsГўВҖВҷ wages.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are a careful fellow, Edmond.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay I have a poor father, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, I know how good a son you are, so now hasten away to see
your father. I have a son too, and I should be very wroth with those
who detained him from me after a three monthsГўВҖВҷ voyage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I have your leave, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, if you have nothing more to say to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCaptain Leclere did not, before he died, give you a letter for me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe was unable to write, sir. But that reminds me that I must ask your
leave of absence for some days.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo get married?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, first, and then to go to Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery good; have what time you require, DantГғВЁs. It will take quite six
weeks to unload the cargo, and we cannot get you ready for sea until
three months after that; only be back again in three months, for the
_Pharaon_,ГўВҖВқ added the owner, patting the young sailor on the back,
ГўВҖВңcannot sail without her captain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWithout her captain!ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, his eyes sparkling with animation;
ГўВҖВңpray mind what you say, for you are touching on the most secret wishes
of my heart. Is it really your intention to make me captain of the
_Pharaon_?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I were sole owner weГўВҖВҷd shake hands on it now, my dear DantГғВЁs, and
call it settled; but I have a partner, and you know the Italian
proverbГўВҖВ”_Chi ha compagno ha padrone_ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳHe who has a partner has a
master.ГўВҖВҷ But the thing is at least half done, as you have one out of
two votes. Rely on me to procure you the other; I will do my best.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young seaman, with tears in his eyes,
and grasping the ownerГўВҖВҷs hand, ГўВҖВңM. Morrel, I thank you in the name of
my father and of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs all right, Edmond. ThereГўВҖВҷs a providence that watches over the
deserving. Go to your father; go and see MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, and afterwards come
to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I row you ashore?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, thank you; I shall remain and look over the accounts with
Danglars. Have you been satisfied with him this voyage?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is according to the sense you attach to the question, sir. Do you
mean is he a good comrade? No, for I think he never liked me since the
day when I was silly enough, after a little quarrel we had, to propose
to him to stop for ten minutes at the island of Monte Cristo to settle
the disputeГўВҖВ”a proposition which I was wrong to suggest, and he quite
right to refuse. If you mean as responsible agent when you ask me the
question, I believe there is nothing to say against him, and that you
will be content with the way in which he has performed his duty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut tell me, DantГғВЁs, if you had command of the _Pharaon_ should you be
glad to see Danglars remain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCaptain or mate, M. Morrel, I shall always have the greatest respect
for those who possess the ownersГўВҖВҷ confidence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs right, thatГўВҖВҷs right, DantГғВЁs! I see you are a thoroughly good
fellow, and will detain you no longer. Go, for I see how impatient you
are.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I have leave?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo, I tell you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMay I have the use of your skiff?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, for the present, M. Morrel, farewell, and a thousand thanks!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hope soon to see you again, my dear Edmond. Good luck to you.ГўВҖВқ

The young sailor jumped into the skiff, and sat down in the stern
sheets, with the order that he be put ashore at La CanebiГғВЁre. The two
oarsmen bent to their work, and the little boat glided away as rapidly
as possible in the midst of the thousand vessels which choke up the
narrow way which leads between the two rows of ships from the mouth of
the harbor to the Quai dГўВҖВҷOrlГғВ©ans.

The shipowner, smiling, followed him with his eyes until he saw him
spring out on the quay and disappear in the midst of the throng, which
from five oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning until nine oГўВҖВҷclock at night, swarms in
the famous street of La CanebiГғВЁre,ГўВҖВ”a street of which the modern
PhocГғВ©ens are so proud that they say with all the gravity in the world,
and with that accent which gives so much character to what is said, ГўВҖВңIf
Paris had La CanebiГғВЁre, Paris would be a second Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ On turning
round the owner saw Danglars behind him, apparently awaiting orders,
but in reality also watching the young sailor,ГўВҖВ”but there was a great
difference in the expression of the two men who thus followed the
movements of Edmond DantГғВЁs.



 Chapter 2. Father and Son

We will leave Danglars struggling with the demon of hatred, and
endeavoring to insinuate in the ear of the shipowner some evil
suspicions against his comrade, and follow DantГғВЁs, who, after having
traversed La CanebiГғВЁre, took the Rue de Noailles, and entering a small
house, on the left of the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan, rapidly ascended four
flights of a dark staircase, holding the baluster with one hand, while
with the other he repressed the beatings of his heart, and paused
before a half-open door, from which he could see the whole of a small
room.

This room was occupied by DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ father. The news of the arrival of
the _Pharaon_ had not yet reached the old man, who, mounted on a chair,
was amusing himself by training with trembling hand the nasturtiums and
sprays of clematis that clambered over the trellis at his window.
Suddenly, he felt an arm thrown around his body, and a well-known voice
behind him exclaimed, ГўВҖВңFatherГўВҖВ”dear father!ГўВҖВқ

The old man uttered a cry, and turned round; then, seeing his son, he
fell into his arms, pale and trembling.

ГўВҖВңWhat ails you, my dearest father? Are you ill?ГўВҖВқ inquired the young
man, much alarmed.

ГўВҖВңNo, no, my dear EdmondГўВҖВ”my boyГўВҖВ”my son!ГўВҖВ”no; but I did not expect you;
and joy, the surprise of seeing you so suddenlyГўВҖВ”Ah, I feel as if I were
going to die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come, cheer up, my dear father! ГўВҖВҷTis IГўВҖВ”really I! They say joy
never hurts, and so I came to you without any warning. Come now, do
smile, instead of looking at me so solemnly. Here I am back again, and
we are going to be happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, my boy, so we willГўВҖВ”so we will,ГўВҖВқ replied the old man; ГўВҖВңbut
how shall we be happy? Shall you never leave me again? Come, tell me
all the good fortune that has befallen you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGod forgive me,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңfor rejoicing at happiness
derived from the misery of others, but, Heaven knows, I did not seek
this good fortune; it has happened, and I really cannot pretend to
lament it. The good Captain Leclere is dead, father, and it is probable
that, with the aid of M. Morrel, I shall have his place. Do you
understand, father? Only imagine me a captain at twenty, with a hundred
louis pay, and a share in the profits! Is this not more than a poor
sailor like me could have hoped for?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, my dear boy,ГўВҖВқ replied the old man, ГўВҖВңit is very fortunate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, with the first money I touch, I mean you to have a small
house, with a garden in which to plant clematis, nasturtiums, and
honeysuckle. But what ails you, father? Are you not well?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis nothing, nothing; it will soon pass awayГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”and as he said so the
old manГўВҖВҷs strength failed him, and he fell backwards.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңa glass of wine, father, will revive
you. Where do you keep your wine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no; thanks. You need not look for it; I do not want it,ГўВҖВқ said the
old man.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, father, tell me where it is,ГўВҖВқ and he opened two or three
cupboards.

ГўВҖВңIt is no use,ГўВҖВқ said the old man, ГўВҖВңthere is no wine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, no wine?ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, turning pale, and looking alternately at
the hollow cheeks of the old man and the empty cupboards. ГўВҖВңWhat, no
wine? Have you wanted money, father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI want nothing now that I have you,ГўВҖВқ said the old man.

ГўВҖВңYet,ГўВҖВқ stammered DantГғВЁs, wiping the perspiration from his brow,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyet I
gave you two hundred francs when I left, three months ago.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, Edmond, that is true, but you forgot at that time a little
debt to our neighbor, Caderousse. He reminded me of it, telling me if I
did not pay for you, he would be paid by M. Morrel; and so, you see,
lest he might do you an injuryГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, I paid him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңit was a hundred and forty francs I owed
Caderousse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ stammered the old man.

ГўВҖВңAnd you paid him out of the two hundred francs I left you?ГўВҖВқ

The old man nodded.

ГўВҖВңSo that you have lived for three months on sixty francs,ГўВҖВқ muttered
Edmond.

ГўВҖВңYou know how little I require,ГўВҖВқ said the old man.

ГўВҖВңHeaven pardon me,ГўВҖВқ cried Edmond, falling on his knees before his
father.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you doing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have wounded me to the heart.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind it, for I see you once more,ГўВҖВқ said the old man; ГўВҖВңand now
itГўВҖВҷs all overГўВҖВ”everything is all right again.ГўВҖВқ

0035m



ГўВҖВңYes, here I am,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңwith a promising future and a
little money. Here, father, here!ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңtake thisГўВҖВ”take it, and
send for something immediately.ГўВҖВқ And he emptied his pockets on the
table, the contents consisting of a dozen gold pieces, five or six
five-franc pieces, and some smaller coin. The countenance of old DantГғВЁs
brightened.

ГўВҖВңWhom does this belong to?ГўВҖВқ he inquired.

ГўВҖВңTo me, to you, to us! Take it; buy some provisions; be happy, and
tomorrow we shall have more.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGently, gently,ГўВҖВқ said the old man, with a smile; ГўВҖВңand by your leave I
will use your purse moderately, for they would say, if they saw me buy
too many things at a time, that I had been obliged to await your
return, in order to be able to purchase them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo as you please; but, first of all, pray have a servant, father. I
will not have you left alone so long. I have some smuggled coffee and
most capital tobacco, in a small chest in the hold, which you shall
have tomorrow. But, hush, here comes somebody.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis Caderousse, who has heard of your arrival, and no doubt comes to
congratulate you on your fortunate return.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, lips that say one thing, while the heart thinks another,ГўВҖВқ murmured
Edmond. ГўВҖВңBut, never mind, he is a neighbor who has done us a service on
a time, so heГўВҖВҷs welcome.ГўВҖВқ

As Edmond paused, the black and bearded head of Caderousse appeared at
the door. He was a man of twenty-five or six, and held a piece of
cloth, which, being a tailor, he was about to make into a coat-lining.

ГўВҖВңWhat, is it you, Edmond, back again?ГўВҖВқ said he, with a broad
Marseillaise accent, and a grin that displayed his ivory-white teeth.

ГўВҖВңYes, as you see, neighbor Caderousse; and ready to be agreeable to you
in any and every way,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, but ill-concealing his coldness
under this cloak of civility.

ГўВҖВңThanksГўВҖВ”thanks; but, fortunately, I do not want for anything; and it
chances that at times there are others who have need of me.ГўВҖВқ DantГғВЁs
made a gesture. ГўВҖВңI do not allude to you, my boy. No!ГўВҖВ”no! I lent you
money, and you returned it; thatГўВҖВҷs like good neighbors, and we are
quits.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are never quits with those who oblige us,ГўВҖВқ was DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ reply; ГўВҖВңfor
when we do not owe them money, we owe them gratitude.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhatГўВҖВҷs the use of mentioning that? What is done is done. Let us talk
of your happy return, my boy. I had gone on the quay to match a piece
of mulberry cloth, when I met friend Danglars. ГўВҖВҳYou at
Marseilles?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ says he.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI thought you were at Smyrna.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳI was; but am now back again.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd where is the dear boy, our little Edmond?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhy, with his father, no doubt,ГўВҖВҷ replied Danglars. And so I came,ГўВҖВқ
added Caderousse, ГўВҖВңas fast as I could to have the pleasure of shaking
hands with a friend.ГўВҖВқ

0037m



ГўВҖВңWorthy Caderousse!ГўВҖВқ said the old man, ГўВҖВңhe is so much attached to us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, to be sure I am. I love and esteem you, because honest folks are
so rare. But it seems you have come back rich, my boy,ГўВҖВқ continued the
tailor, looking askance at the handful of gold and silver which DantГғВЁs
had thrown on the table.

The young man remarked the greedy glance which shone in the dark eyes
of his neighbor. ГўВҖВңEh,ГўВҖВқ he said, negligently, ГўВҖВңthis money is not mine. I
was expressing to my father my fears that he had wanted many things in
my absence, and to convince me he emptied his purse on the table. Come,
fatherГўВҖВқ added DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңput this money back in your boxГўВҖВ”unless neighbor
Caderousse wants anything, and in that case it is at his service.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my boy, no,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңI am not in any want, thank God, my
living is suited to my means. Keep your moneyГўВҖВ”keep it, I say;ГўВҖВ”one never
has too much;ГўВҖВ”but, at the same time, my boy, I am as much obliged by
your offer as if I took advantage of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was offered with good will,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңNo doubt, my boy; no doubt. Well, you stand well with M. Morrel I
hear,ГўВҖВ”you insinuating dog, you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Morrel has always been exceedingly kind to me,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңThen you were wrong to refuse to dine with him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, did you refuse to dine with him?ГўВҖВқ said old DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңand did he
invite you to dine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, my dear father,ГўВҖВқ replied Edmond, smiling at his fatherГўВҖВҷs
astonishment at the excessive honor paid to his son.

ГўВҖВңAnd why did you refuse, my son?ГўВҖВқ inquired the old man.

ГўВҖВңThat I might the sooner see you again, my dear father,ГўВҖВқ replied the
young man. ГўВҖВңI was most anxious to see you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut it must have vexed M. Morrel, good, worthy man,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.
ГўВҖВңAnd when you are looking forward to be captain, it was wrong to annoy
the owner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I explained to him the cause of my refusal,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңand
I hope he fully understood it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but to be captain one must do a little flattery to oneГўВҖВҷs
patrons.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hope to be captain without that,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңSo much the betterГўВҖВ”so much the better! Nothing will give greater
pleasure to all your old friends; and I know one down there behind the
Saint Nicolas citadel who will not be sorry to hear it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ said the old man.

ГўВҖВңYes, my dear father, and with your permission, now I have seen you,
and know you are well and have all you require, I will ask your consent
to go and pay a visit to the Catalans.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo, my dear boy,ГўВҖВқ said old DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңand Heaven bless you in your wife,
as it has blessed me in my son!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis wife!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңwhy, how fast you go on, father DantГғВЁs;
she is not his wife yet, as it seems to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, but according to all probability she soon will be,ГўВҖВқ replied
Edmond.

ГўВҖВңYesГўВҖВ”yes,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңbut you were right to return as soon as
possible, my boy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd why?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause MercГғВ©dГғВЁs is a very fine girl, and fine girls never lack
followers; she particularly has them by dozens.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally?ГўВҖВқ answered Edmond, with a smile which had in it traces of
slight uneasiness.

0039m



ГўВҖВңAh, yes,ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse, ГўВҖВңand capital offers, too; but you
know, you will be captain, and who could refuse you then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMeaning to say,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, with a smile which but ill-concealed
his trouble, ГўВҖВңthat if I were not a captainГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEhГўВҖВ”eh!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, shaking his head.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said the sailor, ГўВҖВңI have a better opinion than you of
women in general, and of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs in particular; and I am certain that,
captain or not, she will remain ever faithful to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the betterГўВҖВ”so much the better,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңWhen one is
going to be married, there is nothing like implicit confidence; but
never mind that, my boy,ГўВҖВ”go and announce your arrival, and let her know
all your hopes and prospects.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will go directly,ГўВҖВқ was EdmondГўВҖВҷs reply; and, embracing his father,
and nodding to Caderousse, he left the apartment.

Caderousse lingered for a moment, then taking leave of old DantГғВЁs, he
went downstairs to rejoin Danglars, who awaited him at the corner of
the Rue Senac.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңdid you see him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have just left him,ГўВҖВқ answered Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңDid he allude to his hope of being captain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe spoke of it as a thing already decided.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңhe is in too much hurry, it appears to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, it seems M. Morrel has promised him the thing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that he is quite elated about it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, yes, he is actually insolent over the matterГўВҖВ”has already offered
me his patronage, as if he were a grand personage, and proffered me a
loan of money, as though he were a banker.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich you refused?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMost assuredly; although I might easily have accepted it, for it was I
who put into his hands the first silver he ever earned; but now M.
DantГғВЁs has no longer any occasion for assistanceГўВҖВ”he is about to become
a captain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPooh!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңhe is not one yet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ it will be as well if he is not,ГўВҖВқ answered Caderousse; ГўВҖВңfor
if he should be, there will be really no speaking to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf we choose,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, ГўВҖВңhe will remain what he is; and
perhaps become even less than he is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothingГўВҖВ”I was speaking to myself. And is he still in love with the
Catalane?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOver head and ears; but, unless I am much mistaken, there will be a
storm in that quarter.ГўВҖВқ

0041m



ГўВҖВңExplain yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy should I?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is more important than you think, perhaps. You do not like DantГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI never like upstarts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen tell me all you know about the Catalane.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know nothing for certain; only I have seen things which induce me to
believe, as I told you, that the future captain will find some
annoyance in the vicinity of the Vieilles Infirmeries.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat have you seen?ГўВҖВ”come, tell me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, every time I have seen MercГғВ©dГғВЁs come into the city she has been
accompanied by a tall, strapping, black-eyed Catalan, with a red
complexion, brown skin, and fierce air, whom she calls cousin.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally; and you think this cousin pays her attentions?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI only suppose so. What else can a strapping chap of twenty-one mean
with a fine wench of seventeen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you say that DantГғВЁs has gone to the Catalans?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe went before I came down.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us go the same way; we will stop at La RГғВ©serve, and we can drink a
glass of La Malgue, whilst we wait for news.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome along,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңbut you pay the score.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf course,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars; and going quickly to the designated
place, they called for a bottle of wine, and two glasses.

PГғВЁre Pamphile had seen DantГғВЁs pass not ten minutes before; and assured
that he was at the Catalans, they sat down under the budding foliage of
the planes and sycamores, in the branches of which the birds were
singing their welcome to one of the first days of spring.



 Chapter 3. The Catalans

Beyond a bare, weather-worn wall, about a hundred paces from the spot
where the two friends sat looking and listening as they drank their
wine, was the village of the Catalans. Long ago this mysterious colony
quitted Spain, and settled on the tongue of land on which it is to this
day. Whence it came no one knew, and it spoke an unknown tongue. One of
its chiefs, who understood ProvenГғВ§al, begged the commune of Marseilles
to give them this bare and barren promontory, where, like the sailors
of old, they had run their boats ashore. The request was granted; and
three months afterwards, around the twelve or fifteen small vessels
which had brought these gypsies of the sea, a small village sprang up.
This village, constructed in a singular and picturesque manner, half
Moorish, half Spanish, still remains, and is inhabited by descendants
of the first comers, who speak the language of their fathers. For three
or four centuries they have remained upon this small promontory, on
which they had settled like a flight of seabirds, without mixing with
the Marseillaise population, intermarrying, and preserving their
original customs and the costume of their mother-country as they have
preserved its language.

Our readers will follow us along the only street of this little
village, and enter with us one of the houses, which is sunburned to the
beautiful dead-leaf color peculiar to the buildings of the country, and
within coated with whitewash, like a Spanish posada. A young and
beautiful girl, with hair as black as jet, her eyes as velvety as the
gazelleГўВҖВҷs, was leaning with her back against the wainscot, rubbing in
her slender delicately moulded fingers a bunch of heath blossoms, the
flowers of which she was picking off and strewing on the floor; her
arms, bare to the elbow, brown, and modelled after those of the
Arlesian Venus, moved with a kind of restless impatience, and she
tapped the earth with her arched and supple foot, so as to display the
pure and full shape of her well-turned leg, in its red cotton, gray and
blue clocked, stocking. At three paces from her, seated in a chair
which he balanced on two legs, leaning his elbow on an old worm-eaten
table, was a tall young man of twenty, or two-and-twenty, who was
looking at her with an air in which vexation and uneasiness were
mingled. He questioned her with his eyes, but the firm and steady gaze
of the young girl controlled his look.

ГўВҖВңYou see, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңhere is Easter come round
again; tell me, is this the moment for a wedding?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have answered you a hundred times, Fernand, and really you must be
very stupid to ask me again.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, repeat it,ГўВҖВ”repeat it, I beg of you, that I may at last believe
it! Tell me for the hundredth time that you refuse my love, which had
your motherГўВҖВҷs sanction. Make me understand once for all that you are
trifling with my happiness, that my life or death are nothing to you.
Ah, to have dreamed for ten years of being your husband, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, and
to lose that hope, which was the only stay of my existence!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least it was not I who ever encouraged you in that hope, Fernand,ГўВҖВқ
replied MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңyou cannot reproach me with the slightest coquetry.
I have always said to you, ГўВҖВҳI love you as a brother; but do not ask
from me more than sisterly affection, for my heart is anotherГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВҷ Is
not this true, Fernand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, that is very true, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, ГўВҖВңYes, you
have been cruelly frank with me; but do you forget that it is among the
Catalans a sacred law to intermarry?ГўВҖВқ

0045m



ГўВҖВңYou mistake, Fernand; it is not a law, but merely a custom, and, I
pray of you, do not cite this custom in your favor. You are included in
the conscription, Fernand, and are only at liberty on sufferance,
liable at any moment to be called upon to take up arms. Once a soldier,
what would you do with me, a poor orphan, forlorn, without fortune,
with nothing but a half-ruined hut and a few ragged nets, the miserable
inheritance left by my father to my mother, and by my mother to me? She
has been dead a year, and you know, Fernand, I have subsisted almost
entirely on public charity. Sometimes you pretend I am useful to you,
and that is an excuse to share with me the produce of your fishing, and
I accept it, Fernand, because you are the son of my fatherГўВҖВҷs brother,
because we were brought up together, and still more because it would
give you so much pain if I refuse. But I feel very deeply that this
fish which I go and sell, and with the produce of which I buy the flax
I spin,ГўВҖВ”I feel very keenly, Fernand, that this is charity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd if it were, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, poor and lone as you are, you suit me as
well as the daughter of the first shipowner or the richest banker of
Marseilles! What do such as we desire but a good wife and careful
housekeeper, and where can I look for these better than in you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFernand,ГўВҖВқ answered MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, shaking her head, ГўВҖВңa woman becomes a bad
manager, and who shall say she will remain an honest woman, when she
loves another man better than her husband? Rest content with my
friendship, for I say once more that is all I can promise, and I will
promise no more than I can bestow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI understand,ГўВҖВқ replied Fernand, ГўВҖВңyou can endure your own wretchedness
patiently, but you are afraid to share mine. Well, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, beloved by
you, I would tempt fortune; you would bring me good luck, and I should
become rich. I could extend my occupation as a fisherman, might get a
place as clerk in a warehouse, and become in time a dealer myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou could do no such thing, Fernand; you are a soldier, and if you
remain at the Catalans it is because there is no war; so remain a
fisherman, and contented with my friendship, as I cannot give you
more.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I will do better, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. I will be a sailor; instead of the
costume of our fathers, which you despise, I will wear a varnished hat,
a striped shirt, and a blue jacket, with an anchor on the buttons.
Would not that dress please you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ asked MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, with an angry glance,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңwhat do you
mean? I do not understand you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, that you are thus harsh and cruel with me, because
you are expecting someone who is thus attired; but perhaps he whom you
await is inconstant, or if he is not, the sea is so to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFernand,ГўВҖВқ cried MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңI believed you were good-hearted, and I was
mistaken! Fernand, you are wicked to call to your aid jealousy and the
anger of God! Yes, I will not deny it, I do await, and I do love him of
whom you speak; and, if he does not return, instead of accusing him of
the inconstancy which you insinuate, I will tell you that he died
loving me and me only.ГўВҖВқ The young girl made a gesture of rage. ГўВҖВңI
understand you, Fernand; you would be revenged on him because I do not
love you; you would cross your Catalan knife with his dirk. What end
would that answer? To lose you my friendship if he were conquered, and
see that friendship changed into hate if you were victor. Believe me,
to seek a quarrel with a man is a bad method of pleasing the woman who
loves that man. No, Fernand, you will not thus give way to evil
thoughts. Unable to have me for your wife, you will content yourself
with having me for your friend and sister; and besides,ГўВҖВқ she added, her
eyes troubled and moistened with tears, ГўВҖВңwait, wait, Fernand; you said
just now that the sea was treacherous, and he has been gone four
months, and during these four months there have been some terrible
storms.ГўВҖВқ

Fernand made no reply, nor did he attempt to check the tears which
flowed down the cheeks of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, although for each of these tears he
would have shed his heartГўВҖВҷs blood; but these tears flowed for another.
He arose, paced a while up and down the hut, and then, suddenly
stopping before MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, with his eyes glowing and his hands
clenched,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңSay, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңonce for all, is this your final
determination?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI love Edmond DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ the young girl calmly replied, ГўВҖВңand none but
Edmond shall ever be my husband.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you will always love him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs long as I live.ГўВҖВқ

Fernand let fall his head like a defeated man, heaved a sigh that was
like a groan, and then suddenly looking her full in the face, with
clenched teeth and expanded nostrils, said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңBut if he is deadГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf he is dead, I shall die too.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf he has forgotten youГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ called a joyous voice from without,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young girl, blushing with delight, and fairly
leaping in excess of love, ГўВҖВңyou see he has not forgotten me, for here
he is!ГўВҖВқ And rushing towards the door, she opened it, saying, ГўВҖВңHere,
Edmond, here I am!ГўВҖВқ

Fernand, pale and trembling, drew back, like a traveller at the sight
of a serpent, and fell into a chair beside him. Edmond and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs
were clasped in each otherГўВҖВҷs arms. The burning Marseilles sun, which
shot into the room through the open door, covered them with a flood of
light. At first they saw nothing around them. Their intense happiness
isolated them from all the rest of the world, and they only spoke in
broken words, which are the tokens of a joy so extreme that they seem
rather the expression of sorrow. Suddenly Edmond saw the gloomy, pale,
and threatening countenance of Fernand, as it was defined in the
shadow. By a movement for which he could scarcely account to himself,
the young Catalan placed his hand on the knife at his belt.

ГўВҖВңAh, your pardon,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, frowning in his turn; ГўВҖВңI did not
perceive that there were three of us.ГўВҖВқ Then, turning to MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, he
inquired, ГўВҖВңWho is this gentleman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne who will be your best friend, DantГғВЁs, for he is my friend, my
cousin, my brother; it is FernandГўВҖВ”the man whom, after you, Edmond, I
love the best in the world. Do you not remember him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes!ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, and without relinquishing MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ hand clasped in
one of his own, he extended the other to the Catalan with a cordial
air. But Fernand, instead of responding to this amiable gesture,
remained mute and trembling. Edmond then cast his eyes scrutinizingly
at the agitated and embarrassed MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, and then again on the gloomy
and menacing Fernand. This look told him all, and his anger waxed hot.

ГўВҖВңI did not know, when I came with such haste to you, that I was to meet
an enemy here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn enemy!ГўВҖВқ cried MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, with an angry look at her cousin. ГўВҖВңAn enemy
in my house, do you say, Edmond! If I believed that, I would place my
arm under yours and go with you to Marseilles, leaving the house to
return to it no more.ГўВҖВқ

FernandГўВҖВҷs eye darted lightning. ГўВҖВңAnd should any misfortune occur to
you, dear Edmond,ГўВҖВқ she continued with the same calmness which proved to
Fernand that the young girl had read the very innermost depths of his
sinister thought, ГўВҖВңif misfortune should occur to you, I would ascend
the highest point of the Cape de Morgiou and cast myself headlong from
it.ГўВҖВқ

Fernand became deadly pale. ГўВҖВңBut you are deceived, Edmond,ГўВҖВқ she
continued. ГўВҖВңYou have no enemy hereГўВҖВ”there is no one but Fernand, my
brother, who will grasp your hand as a devoted friend.ГўВҖВқ

And at these words the young girl fixed her imperious look on the
Catalan, who, as if fascinated by it, came slowly towards Edmond, and
offered him his hand. His hatred, like a powerless though furious wave,
was broken against the strong ascendancy which MercГғВ©dГғВЁs exercised over
him. Scarcely, however, had he touched EdmondГўВҖВҷs hand when he felt he
had done all he could do, and rushed hastily out of the house.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, running furiously and tearing his hairГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңOh, who
will deliver me from this man? WretchedГўВҖВ”wretched that I am!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHallo, Catalan! Hallo, Fernand! where are you running to?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed a
voice.

The young man stopped suddenly, looked around him, and perceived
Caderousse sitting at table with Danglars, under an arbor.

ГўВҖВңWellГўВҖВқ, said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңwhy donГўВҖВҷt you come? Are you really in such a
hurry that you have no time to pass the time of day with your friends?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңParticularly when they have still a full bottle before them,ГўВҖВқ added
Danglars. Fernand looked at them both with a stupefied air, but did not
say a word.

ГўВҖВңHe seems besotted,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, pushing Caderousse with his knee.
ГўВҖВңAre we mistaken, and is DantГғВЁs triumphant in spite of all we have
believed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, we must inquire into that,ГўВҖВқ was CaderousseГўВҖВҷs reply; and turning
towards the young man, said, ГўВҖВңWell, Catalan, canГўВҖВҷt you make up your
mind?ГўВҖВқ

Fernand wiped away the perspiration steaming from his brow, and slowly
entered the arbor, whose shade seemed to restore somewhat of calmness
to his senses, and whose coolness somewhat of refreshment to his
exhausted body.

ГўВҖВңGood-day,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңYou called me, didnГўВҖВҷt you?ГўВҖВқ And he fell, rather
than sat down, on one of the seats which surrounded the table.

ГўВҖВңI called you because you were running like a madman, and I was afraid
you would throw yourself into the sea,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, laughing.
ГўВҖВңWhy, when a man has friends, they are not only to offer him a glass of
wine, but, moreover, to prevent his swallowing three or four pints of
water unnecessarily!ГўВҖВқ

Fernand gave a groan, which resembled a sob, and dropped his head into
his hands, his elbows leaning on the table.

ГўВҖВңWell, Fernand, I must say,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, beginning the
conversation, with that brutality of the common people in which
curiosity destroys all diplomacy, ГўВҖВңyou look uncommonly like a rejected
lover;ГўВҖВқ and he burst into a hoarse laugh.

ГўВҖВңBah!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңa lad of his make was not born to be unhappy in
love. You are laughing at him, Caderousse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңonly hark how he sighs! Come, come, Fernand,ГўВҖВқ said
Caderousse, ГўВҖВңhold up your head, and answer us. ItГўВҖВҷs not polite not to
reply to friends who ask news of your health.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy health is well enough,ГўВҖВқ said Fernand, clenching his hands without
raising his head.

ГўВҖВңAh, you see, Danglars,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, winking at his friend, ГўВҖВңthis
is how it is; Fernand, whom you see here, is a good and brave Catalan,
one of the best fishermen in Marseilles, and he is in love with a very
fine girl, named MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; but it appears, unfortunately, that the fine
girl is in love with the mate of the _Pharaon_; and as the _Pharaon_
arrived todayГўВҖВ”why, you understand!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; I do not understand,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңPoor Fernand has been dismissed,ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңWell, and what then?ГўВҖВқ said Fernand, lifting up his head, and looking
at Caderousse like a man who looks for someone on whom to vent his
anger; ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs is not accountable to any person, is she? Is she not
free to love whomsoever she will?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, if you take it in that sense,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңit is another
thing. But I thought you were a Catalan, and they told me the Catalans
were not men to allow themselves to be supplanted by a rival. It was
even told me that Fernand, especially, was terrible in his vengeance.ГўВҖВқ

Fernand smiled piteously. ГўВҖВңA lover is never terrible,ГўВҖВқ he said.

ГўВҖВңPoor fellow!ГўВҖВқ remarked Danglars, affecting to pity the young man from
the bottom of his heart. ГўВҖВңWhy, you see, he did not expect to see DantГғВЁs
return so suddenlyГўВҖВ”he thought he was dead, perhaps; or perchance
faithless! These things always come on us more severely when they come
suddenly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, _ma foi_, under any circumstances!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, who drank as
he spoke, and on whom the fumes of the wine began to take
effect,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңunder any circumstances Fernand is not the only person put out
by the fortunate arrival of DantГғВЁs; is he, Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, you are rightГўВҖВ”and I should say that would bring him ill-luck.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, never mind,ГўВҖВқ answered Caderousse, pouring out a glass of wine
for Fernand, and filling his own for the eighth or ninth time, while
Danglars had merely sipped his. ГўВҖВңNever mindГўВҖВ”in the meantime he marries
MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВ”the lovely MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВ”at least he returns to do that.ГўВҖВқ

During this time Danglars fixed his piercing glance on the young man,
on whose heart CaderousseГўВҖВҷs words fell like molten lead.

ГўВҖВңAnd when is the wedding to be?ГўВҖВқ he asked.

ГўВҖВңOh, it is not yet fixed!ГўВҖВқ murmured Fernand.

ГўВҖВңNo, but it will be,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңas surely as DantГғВЁs will be
captain of the _Pharaon_ГўВҖВ”eh, Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

Danglars shuddered at this unexpected attack, and turned to Caderousse,
whose countenance he scrutinized, to try and detect whether the blow
was premeditated; but he read nothing but envy in a countenance already
rendered brutal and stupid by drunkenness.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, filling the glasses, ГўВҖВңlet us drink to Captain Edmond
DantГғВЁs, husband of the beautiful Catalane!ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse raised his glass to his mouth with unsteady hand, and
swallowed the contents at a gulp. Fernand dashed his on the ground.

ГўВҖВңEh, eh, eh!ГўВҖВқ stammered Caderousse. ГўВҖВңWhat do I see down there by the
wall, in the direction of the Catalans? Look, Fernand, your eyes are
better than mine. I believe I see double. You know wine is a deceiver;
but I should say it was two lovers walking side by side, and hand in
hand. Heaven forgive me, they do not know that we can see them, and
they are actually embracing!ГўВҖВқ

Danglars did not lose one pang that Fernand endured.

ГўВҖВңDo you know them, Fernand?ГўВҖВқ he said.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ was the reply, in a low voice. ГўВҖВңIt is Edmond and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, see there, now!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңand I did not recognize them!
Hallo, DantГғВЁs! hello, lovely damsel! Come this way, and let us know
when the wedding is to be, for Fernand here is so obstinate he will not
tell us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHold your tongue, will you?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, pretending to restrain
Caderousse, who, with the tenacity of drunkards, leaned out of the
arbor. ГўВҖВңTry to stand upright, and let the lovers make love without
interruption. See, look at Fernand, and follow his example; he is
well-behaved!ГўВҖВқ

0051m



Fernand, probably excited beyond bearing, pricked by Danglars, as the
bull is by the bandilleros, was about to rush out; for he had risen
from his seat, and seemed to be collecting himself to dash headlong
upon his rival, when MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, smiling and graceful, lifted up her
lovely head, and looked at them with her clear and bright eyes. At this
Fernand recollected her threat of dying if Edmond died, and dropped
again heavily on his seat. Danglars looked at the two men, one after
the other, the one brutalized by liquor, the other overwhelmed with
love.

ГўВҖВңI shall get nothing from these fools,ГўВҖВқ he muttered; ГўВҖВңand I am very
much afraid of being here between a drunkard and a coward. HereГўВҖВҷs an
envious fellow making himself boozy on wine when he ought to be nursing
his wrath, and here is a fool who sees the woman he loves stolen from
under his nose and takes on like a big baby. Yet this Catalan has eyes
that glisten like those of the vengeful Spaniards, Sicilians, and
Calabrians, and the other has fists big enough to crush an ox at one
blow. Unquestionably, EdmondГўВҖВҷs star is in the ascendant, and he will
marry the splendid girlГўВҖВ”he will be captain, too, and laugh at us all,
unlessГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”a sinister smile passed over DanglarsГўВҖВҷ lipsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңunless I take a
hand in the affair,ГўВҖВқ he added.

ГўВҖВңHallo!ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse, half-rising, and with his fist on the
table, ГўВҖВңhallo, Edmond! do you not see your friends, or are you too
proud to speak to them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my dear fellow!ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңI am not proud, but I am happy,
and happiness blinds, I think, more than pride.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, very well, thatГўВҖВҷs an explanation!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңHow do you
do, Madame DantГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs courtesied gravely, and saidГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңThat is not my name, and in my
country it bodes ill fortune, they say, to call a young girl by the
name of her betrothed before he becomes her husband. So call me
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, if you please.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe must excuse our worthy neighbor, Caderousse,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңhe is
so easily mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo, then, the wedding is to take place immediately, M. DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ said
Danglars, bowing to the young couple.

ГўВҖВңAs soon as possible, M. Danglars; today all preliminaries will be
arranged at my fatherГўВҖВҷs, and tomorrow, or next day at latest, the
wedding festival here at La RГғВ©serve. My friends will be there, I hope;
that is to say, you are invited, M. Danglars, and you, Caderousse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd Fernand,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse with a chuckle; ГўВҖВңFernand, too, is
invited!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy wifeГўВҖВҷs brother is my brother,ГўВҖВқ said Edmond; ГўВҖВңand we, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs and
I, should be very sorry if he were absent at such a time.ГўВҖВқ

Fernand opened his mouth to reply, but his voice died on his lips, and
he could not utter a word.

ГўВҖВңToday the preliminaries, tomorrow or next day the ceremony! You are in
a hurry, captain!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDanglars,ГўВҖВқ said Edmond, smiling, ГўВҖВңI will say to you as MercГғВ©dГғВЁs said
just now to Caderousse, ГўВҖВҳDo not give me a title which does not belong
to meГўВҖВҷ; that may bring me bad luck.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour pardon,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, ГўВҖВңI merely said you seemed in a hurry,
and we have lots of time; the _Pharaon_ cannot be under weigh again in
less than three months.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are always in a hurry to be happy, M. Danglars; for when we have
suffered a long time, we have great difficulty in believing in good
fortune. But it is not selfishness alone that makes me thus in haste; I
must go to Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, really?ГўВҖВ”to Paris! and will it be the first time you have ever been
there, DantГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you business there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot of my own; the last commission of poor Captain Leclere; you know
to what I allude, DanglarsГўВҖВ”it is sacred. Besides, I shall only take the
time to go and return.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, I understand,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, and then in a low tone, he
added, ГўВҖВңTo Paris, no doubt to deliver the letter which the grand
marshal gave him. Ah, this letter gives me an ideaГўВҖВ”a capital idea! Ah;
DantГғВЁs, my friend, you are not yet registered number one on board the
good ship _Pharaon_;ГўВҖВқ then turning towards Edmond, who was walking
away, ГўВҖВңA pleasant journey,ГўВҖВқ he cried.

ГўВҖВңThank you,ГўВҖВқ said Edmond with a friendly nod, and the two lovers
continued on their way, as calm and joyous as if they were the very
elect of heaven.



 Chapter 4. Conspiracy

Danglars followed Edmond and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs with his eyes until the two
lovers disappeared behind one of the angles of Fort Saint Nicolas;
then, turning round, he perceived Fernand, who had fallen, pale and
trembling, into his chair, while Caderousse stammered out the words of
a drinking-song.

ГўВҖВңWell, my dear sir,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars to Fernand, ГўВҖВңhere is a marriage
which does not appear to make everybody happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt drives me to despair,ГўВҖВқ said Fernand.

ГўВҖВңDo you, then, love MercГғВ©dГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI adore her!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor long?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs long as I have known herГўВҖВ”always.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you sit there, tearing your hair, instead of seeking to remedy
your condition; I did not think that was the way of your people.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat would you have me do?ГўВҖВқ said Fernand.

ГўВҖВңHow do I know? Is it my affair? I am not in love with Mademoiselle
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; but for youГўВҖВ”in the words of the gospel, seek, and you shall
find.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have found already.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI would stab the man, but the woman told me that if any misfortune
happened to her betrothed, she would kill herself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPooh! Women say those things, but never do them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not know MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; what she threatens she will do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIdiot!ГўВҖВқ muttered Danglars; ГўВҖВңwhether she kill herself or not, what
matter, provided DantГғВЁs is not captain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBefore MercГғВ©dГғВЁs should die,ГўВҖВқ replied Fernand, with the accents of
unshaken resolution, ГўВҖВңI would die myself!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs what I call love!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse with a voice more tipsy than
ever. ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs love, or I donГўВҖВҷt know what love is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңyou appear to me a good sort of fellow, and
hang me, I should like to help you, butГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңbut how?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, ГўВҖВңyou are three parts drunk; finish
the bottle, and you will be completely so. Drink then, and do not
meddle with what we are discussing, for that requires all oneГўВҖВҷs wit and
cool judgment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВ”drunk!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңwell thatГўВҖВҷs a good one! I could drink four
more such bottles; they are no bigger than cologne flasks. PГғВЁre
Pamphile, more wine!ГўВҖВқ

And Caderousse rattled his glass upon the table.

ГўВҖВңYou were saying, sirГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ said Fernand, awaiting with great anxiety the
end of this interrupted remark.

ГўВҖВңWhat was I saying? I forget. This drunken Caderousse has made me lose
the thread of my sentence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDrunk, if you like; so much the worse for those who fear wine, for it
is because they have bad thoughts which they are afraid the liquor will
extract from their hearts;ГўВҖВқ and Caderousse began to sing the two last
lines of a song very popular at the time:

ГўВҖВҳTous les mГғВ©chants sont buveurs dГўВҖВҷeau;

CГўВҖВҷest bien prouvГғВ© par le dГғВ©luge.ГўВҖВҷ1


ГўВҖВңYou said, sir, you would like to help me, butГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but I added, to help you it would be sufficient that DantГғВЁs did
not marry her you love; and the marriage may easily be thwarted,
methinks, and yet DantГғВЁs need not die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDeath alone can separate them,ГўВҖВқ remarked Fernand.

ГўВҖВңYou talk like a noodle, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңand here is
Danglars, who is a wide-awake, clever, deep fellow, who will prove to
you that you are wrong. Prove it, Danglars. I have answered for you.
Say there is no need why DantГғВЁs should die; it would, indeed, be a pity
he should. DantГғВЁs is a good fellow; I like DantГғВЁs. DantГғВЁs, your
health.ГўВҖВқ

Fernand rose impatiently. ГўВҖВңLet him run on,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, restraining
the young man; ГўВҖВңdrunk as he is, he is not much out in what he says.
Absence severs as well as death, and if the walls of a prison were
between Edmond and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs they would be as effectually separated as
if he lay under a tombstone.ГўВҖВқ

0056m



ГўВҖВңYes; but one gets out of prison,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, who, with what
sense was left him, listened eagerly to the conversation, ГўВҖВңand when one
gets out and oneГўВҖВҷs name is Edmond DantГғВЁs, one seeks revengeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat matters that?ГўВҖВқ muttered Fernand.

ГўВҖВңAnd why, I should like to know,ГўВҖВқ persisted Caderousse, ГўВҖВңshould they
put DantГғВЁs in prison? he has neither robbed, nor killed, nor murdered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHold your tongue!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңI wonГўВҖВҷt hold my tongue!ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse; ГўВҖВңI say I want to know why
they should put DantГғВЁs in prison; I like DantГғВЁs; DantГғВЁs, your health!ГўВҖВқ
and he swallowed another glass of wine.

0057m



Danglars saw in the muddled look of the tailor the progress of his
intoxication, and turning towards Fernand, said, ГўВҖВңWell, you understand
there is no need to kill him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly not, if, as you said just now, you have the means of having
DantГғВЁs arrested. Have you that means?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is to be found for the searching. But why should I meddle in the
matter? it is no affair of mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know not why you meddle,ГўВҖВқ said Fernand, seizing his arm; ГўВҖВңbut this I
know, you have some motive of personal hatred against DantГғВЁs, for he
who himself hates is never mistaken in the sentiments of others.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI! motives of hatred against DantГғВЁs? None, on my word! I saw you were
unhappy, and your unhappiness interested me; thatГўВҖВҷs all; but since you
believe I act for my own account, adieu, my dear friend, get out of the
affair as best you may;ГўВҖВқ and Danglars rose as if he meant to depart.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ said Fernand, restraining him, ГўВҖВңstay! It is of very little
consequence to me at the end of the matter whether you have any angry
feeling or not against DantГғВЁs. I hate him! I confess it openly. Do you
find the means, I will execute it, provided it is not to kill the man,
for MercГғВ©dГғВЁs has declared she will kill herself if DantГғВЁs is killed.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse, who had let his head drop on the table, now raised it, and
looking at Fernand with his dull and fishy eyes, he said, ГўВҖВңKill DantГғВЁs!
who talks of killing DantГғВЁs? I wonГўВҖВҷt have him killedГўВҖВ”I wonГўВҖВҷt! HeГўВҖВҷs my
friend, and this morning offered to share his money with me, as I
shared mine with him. I wonГўВҖВҷt have DantГғВЁs killedГўВҖВ”I wonГўВҖВҷt!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who has said a word about killing him, muddlehead?ГўВҖВқ replied
Danglars. ГўВҖВңWe were merely joking; drink to his health,ГўВҖВқ he added,
filling CaderousseГўВҖВҷs glass, ГўВҖВңand do not interfere with us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ good health!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, emptying his glass,
ГўВҖВңhereГўВҖВҷs to his health! his healthГўВҖВ”hurrah!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the meansГўВҖВ”the means?ГўВҖВқ said Fernand.

ГўВҖВңHave you not hit upon any?ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars.

ГўВҖВңNo!ГўВҖВ”you undertook to do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars; ГўВҖВңthe French have the superiority over the
Spaniards, that the Spaniards ruminate, while the French invent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you invent, then,ГўВҖВқ said Fernand impatiently.

ГўВҖВңWaiter,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңpen, ink, and paper.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPen, ink, and paper,ГўВҖВқ muttered Fernand.

ГўВҖВңYes; I am a supercargo; pen, ink, and paper are my tools, and without
my tools I am fit for nothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPen, ink, and paper, then,ГўВҖВқ called Fernand loudly.

ГўВҖВңThereГўВҖВҷs what you want on that table,ГўВҖВқ said the waiter.

ГўВҖВңBring them here.ГўВҖВқ The waiter did as he was desired.

0059m



ГўВҖВңWhen one thinks,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, letting his hand drop on the paper,
ГўВҖВңthere is here wherewithal to kill a man more sure than if we waited at
the corner of a wood to assassinate him! I have always had more dread
of a pen, a bottle of ink, and a sheet of paper, than of a sword or
pistol.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe fellow is not so drunk as he appears to be,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars. ГўВҖВңGive
him some more wine, Fernand.ГўВҖВқ Fernand filled CaderousseГўВҖВҷs glass, who,
like the confirmed toper he was, lifted his hand from the paper and
seized the glass.

The Catalan watched him until Caderousse, almost overcome by this fresh
assault on his senses, rested, or rather dropped, his glass upon the
table.

ГўВҖВңWell!ГўВҖВқ resumed the Catalan, as he saw the final glimmer of
CaderousseГўВҖВҷs reason vanishing before the last glass of wine.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, I should say, for instance,ГўВҖВқ resumed Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat if
after a voyage such as DantГғВЁs has just made, in which he touched at the
Island of Elba, someone were to denounce him to the kingГўВҖВҷs procureur as
a Bonapartist agentГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will denounce him!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young man hastily.

ГўВҖВңYes, but they will make you then sign your declaration, and confront
you with him you have denounced; I will supply you with the means of
supporting your accusation, for I know the fact well. But DantГғВЁs cannot
remain forever in prison, and one day or other he will leave it, and
the day when he comes out, woe betide him who was the cause of his
incarceration!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I should wish nothing better than that he would come and seek a
quarrel with me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs! MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, who will detest you if you have only the
misfortune to scratch the skin of her dearly beloved Edmond!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue!ГўВҖВқ said Fernand.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ continued Danglars; ГўВҖВңif we resolve on such a step, it would
be much better to take, as I now do, this pen, dip it into this ink,
and write with the left hand (that the writing may not be recognized)
the denunciation we propose.ГўВҖВқ And Danglars, uniting practice with
theory, wrote with his left hand, and in a writing reversed from his
usual style, and totally unlike it, the following lines, which he
handed to Fernand, and which Fernand read in an undertone:

ГўВҖВңThe honorable, the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, is informed by a friend of the
throne and religion, that one Edmond DantГғВЁs, mate of the ship
_Pharaon_, arrived this morning from Smyrna, after having touched at
Naples and Porto-Ferrajo, has been intrusted by Murat with a letter for
the usurper, and by the usurper with a letter for the Bonapartist
committee in Paris. Proof of this crime will be found on arresting him,
for the letter will be found upon him, or at his fatherГўВҖВҷs, or in his
cabin on board the _Pharaon_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery good,ГўВҖВқ resumed Danglars; ГўВҖВңnow your revenge looks like common
sense, for in no way can it revert to yourself, and the matter will
thus work its own way; there is nothing to do now but fold the letter
as I am doing, and write upon it, ГўВҖВҳTo the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney,ГўВҖВҷ and thatГўВҖВҷs
all settled.ГўВҖВқ And Danglars wrote the address as he spoke.

ГўВҖВңYes, and thatГўВҖВҷs all settled!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Caderousse, who, by a last
effort of intellect, had followed the reading of the letter, and
instinctively comprehended all the misery which such a denunciation
must entail. ГўВҖВңYes, and thatГўВҖВҷs all settled; only it will be an infamous
shame;ГўВҖВқ and he stretched out his hand to reach the letter.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, taking it from beyond his reach; ГўВҖВңand as what I
say and do is merely in jest, and I, amongst the first and foremost,
should be sorry if anything happened to DantГғВЁsГўВҖВ”the worthy DantГғВЁsГўВҖВ”look
here!ГўВҖВқ And taking the letter, he squeezed it up in his hands and threw
it into a corner of the arbor.

ГўВҖВңAll right!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңDantГғВЁs is my friend, and I wonГўВҖВҷt have
him ill-used.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who thinks of using him ill? Certainly neither I nor Fernand,ГўВҖВқ
said Danglars, rising and looking at the young man, who still remained
seated, but whose eye was fixed on the denunciatory sheet of paper
flung into the corner.

ГўВҖВңIn this case,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВңletГўВҖВҷs have some more wine. I wish
to drink to the health of Edmond and the lovely MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have had too much already, drunkard,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңand if you
continue, you will be compelled to sleep here, because unable to stand
on your legs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, rising with all the offended dignity of a drunken
man, ГўВҖВңI canГўВҖВҷt keep on my legs? Why, IГўВҖВҷll wager I can go up into the
belfry of the Accoules, and without staggering, too!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDone!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷll take your bet; but tomorrowГўВҖВ”today it is
time to return. Give me your arm, and let us go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, let us go,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңbut I donГўВҖВҷt want your arm at
all. Come, Fernand, wonГўВҖВҷt you return to Marseilles with us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Fernand; ГўВҖВңI shall return to the Catalans.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYouГўВҖВҷre wrong. Come with us to MarseillesГўВҖВ”come along.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean? you will not? Well, just as you like, my prince;
thereГўВҖВҷs liberty for all the world. Come along, Danglars, and let the
young gentleman return to the Catalans if he chooses.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars took advantage of CaderousseГўВҖВҷs temper at the moment, to take
him off towards Marseilles by the Porte Saint-Victor, staggering as he
went.

When they had advanced about twenty yards, Danglars looked back and saw
Fernand stoop, pick up the crumpled paper, and putting it into his
pocket then rush out of the arbor towards Pillon.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңwhy, what a lie he told! He said he was going
to the Catalans, and he is going to the city. Hallo, Fernand! You are
coming, my boy!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you donГўВҖВҷt see straight,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңheГўВҖВҷs gone right by the
road to the Vieilles Infirmeries.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңI should have sworn that he turned to the
rightГўВҖВ”how treacherous wine is!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars to himself, ГўВҖВңnow the thing is at work and
it will effect its purpose unassisted.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 5. The Marriage Feast

The morningГўВҖВҷs sun rose clear and resplendent, touching the foamy waves
into a network of ruby-tinted light.

The feast had been made ready on the second floor at La RГғВ©serve, with
whose arbor the reader is already familiar. The apartment destined for
the purpose was spacious and lighted by a number of windows, over each
of which was written in golden letters for some inexplicable reason the
name of one of the principal cities of France; beneath these windows a
wooden balcony extended the entire length of the house. And although
the entertainment was fixed for twelve oГўВҖВҷclock, an hour previous to
that time the balcony was filled with impatient and expectant guests,
consisting of the favored part of the crew of the _Pharaon_, and other
personal friends of the bridegroom, the whole of whom had arrayed
themselves in their choicest costumes, in order to do greater honor to
the occasion.

Various rumors were afloat to the effect that the owners of the
_Pharaon_ had promised to attend the nuptial feast; but all seemed
unanimous in doubting that an act of such rare and exceeding
condescension could possibly be intended.

Danglars, however, who now made his appearance, accompanied by
Caderousse, effectually confirmed the report, stating that he had
recently conversed with M. Morrel, who had himself assured him of his
intention to dine at La RГғВ©serve.

In fact, a moment later M. Morrel appeared and was saluted with an
enthusiastic burst of applause from the crew of the _Pharaon_, who
hailed the visit of the shipowner as a sure indication that the man
whose wedding feast he thus delighted to honor would ere long be first
in command of the ship; and as DantГғВЁs was universally beloved on board
his vessel, the sailors put no restraint on their tumultuous joy at
finding that the opinion and choice of their superiors so exactly
coincided with their own.

With the entrance of M. Morrel, Danglars and Caderousse were despatched
in search of the bridegroom to convey to him the intelligence of the
arrival of the important personage whose coming had created such a
lively sensation, and to beseech him to make haste.

Danglars and Caderousse set off upon their errand at full speed; but
ere they had gone many steps they perceived a group advancing towards
them, composed of the betrothed pair, a party of young girls in
attendance on the bride, by whose side walked DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ father; the whole
brought up by Fernand, whose lips wore their usual sinister smile.

Neither MercГғВ©dГғВЁs nor Edmond observed the strange expression of his
countenance; they were so happy that they were conscious only of the
sunshine and the presence of each other.

Having acquitted themselves of their errand, and exchanged a hearty
shake of the hand with Edmond, Danglars and Caderousse took their
places beside Fernand and old DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВ”the latter of whom attracted
universal notice.

The old man was attired in a suit of glistening watered silk, trimmed
with steel buttons, beautifully cut and polished. His thin but wiry
legs were arrayed in a pair of richly embroidered clocked stockings,
evidently of English manufacture, while from his three-cornered hat
depended a long streaming knot of white and blue ribbons. Thus he came
along, supporting himself on a curiously carved stick, his aged
countenance lit up with happiness, looking for all the world like one
of the aged dandies of 1796, parading the newly opened gardens of the
Luxembourg and Tuileries.

Beside him glided Caderousse, whose desire to partake of the good
things provided for the wedding party had induced him to become
reconciled to the DantГғВЁs, father and son, although there still lingered
in his mind a faint and unperfect recollection of the events of the
preceding night; just as the brain retains on waking in the morning the
dim and misty outline of a dream.

0065m



As Danglars approached the disappointed lover, he cast on him a look of
deep meaning, while Fernand, as he slowly paced behind the happy pair,
who seemed, in their own unmixed content, to have entirely forgotten
that such a being as himself existed, was pale and abstracted;
occasionally, however, a deep flush would overspread his countenance,
and a nervous contraction distort his features, while, with an agitated
and restless gaze, he would glance in the direction of Marseilles, like
one who either anticipated or foresaw some great and important event.

DantГғВЁs himself was simply, but becomingly, clad in the dress peculiar
to the merchant serviceГўВҖВ”a costume somewhat between a military and a
civil garb; and with his fine countenance, radiant with joy and
happiness, a more perfect specimen of manly beauty could scarcely be
imagined.

Lovely as the Greek girls of Cyprus or Chios, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs boasted the same
bright flashing eyes of jet, and ripe, round, coral lips. She moved
with the light, free step of an Arlesienne or an Andalusian. One more
practiced in the arts of great cities would have hid her blushes
beneath a veil, or, at least, have cast down her thickly fringed
lashes, so as to have concealed the liquid lustre of her animated eyes;
but, on the contrary, the delighted girl looked around her with a smile
that seemed to say: ГўВҖВңIf you are my friends, rejoice with me, for I am
very happy.ГўВҖВқ

As soon as the bridal party came in sight of La RГғВ©serve, M. Morrel
descended and came forth to meet it, followed by the soldiers and
sailors there assembled, to whom he had repeated the promise already
given, that DantГғВЁs should be the successor to the late Captain Leclere.
Edmond, at the approach of his patron, respectfully placed the arm of
his affianced bride within that of M. Morrel, who, forthwith conducting
her up the flight of wooden steps leading to the chamber in which the
feast was prepared, was gayly followed by the guests, beneath whose
heavy tread the slight structure creaked and groaned for the space of
several minutes.

ГўВҖВңFather,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, stopping when she had reached the centre of
the table, ГўВҖВңsit, I pray you, on my right hand; on my left I will place
him who has ever been as a brother to me,ГўВҖВқ pointing with a soft and
gentle smile to Fernand; but her words and look seemed to inflict the
direst torture on him, for his lips became ghastly pale, and even
beneath the dark hue of his complexion the blood might be seen
retreating as though some sudden pang drove it back to the heart.

During this time, DantГғВЁs, at the opposite side of the table, had been
occupied in similarly placing his most honored guests. M. Morrel was
seated at his right hand, Danglars at his left; while, at a sign from
Edmond, the rest of the company ranged themselves as they found it most
agreeable.

Then they began to pass around the dusky, piquant, Arlesian sausages,
and lobsters in their dazzling red cuirasses, prawns of large size and
brilliant color, the echinus with its prickly outside and dainty morsel
within, the clovis, esteemed by the epicures of the South as more than
rivalling the exquisite flavor of the oyster, North. All the
delicacies, in fact, that are cast up by the wash of waters on the
sandy beach, and styled by the grateful fishermen ГўВҖВңfruits of the sea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA pretty silence truly!ГўВҖВқ said the old father of the bridegroom, as he
carried to his lips a glass of wine of the hue and brightness of the
topaz, and which had just been placed before MercГғВ©dГғВЁs herself. ГўВҖВңNow,
would anybody think that this room contained a happy, merry party, who
desire nothing better than to laugh and dance the hours away?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ sighed Caderousse, ГўВҖВңa man cannot always feel happy because he is
about to be married.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe truth is,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңthat I am too happy for noisy mirth;
if that is what you meant by your observation, my worthy friend, you
are right; joy takes a strange effect at times, it seems to oppress us
almost the same as sorrow.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars looked towards Fernand, whose excitable nature received and
betrayed each fresh impression.

ГўВҖВңWhy, what ails you?ГўВҖВқ asked he of Edmond. ГўВҖВңDo you fear any approaching
evil? I should say that you were the happiest man alive at this
instant.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd that is the very thing that alarms me,ГўВҖВқ returned DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңMan does
not appear to me to be intended to enjoy felicity so unmixed; happiness
is like the enchanted palaces we read of in our childhood, where
fierce, fiery dragons defend the entrance and approach; and monsters of
all shapes and kinds, requiring to be overcome ere victory is ours. I
own that I am lost in wonder to find myself promoted to an honor of
which I feel myself unworthyГўВҖВ”that of being the husband of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, nay!ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse, smiling, ГўВҖВңyou have not attained that
honor yet. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs is not yet your wife. Just assume the tone and
manner of a husband, and see how she will remind you that your hour is
not yet come!ГўВҖВқ

The bride blushed, while Fernand, restless and uneasy, seemed to start
at every fresh sound, and from time to time wiped away the large drops
of perspiration that gathered on his brow.

ГўВҖВңWell, never mind that, neighbor Caderousse; it is not worthwhile to
contradict me for such a trifle as that. ГўВҖВҷTis true that MercГғВ©dГғВЁs is not
actually my wife; but,ГўВҖВқ added he, drawing out his watch, ГўВҖВңin an hour
and a half she will be.ГўВҖВқ

A general exclamation of surprise ran round the table, with the
exception of the elder DantГғВЁs, whose laugh displayed the still perfect
beauty of his large white teeth. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs looked pleased and gratified,
while Fernand grasped the handle of his knife with a convulsive clutch.

ГўВҖВңIn an hour?ГўВҖВқ inquired Danglars, turning pale. ГўВҖВңHow is that, my
friend?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, thus it is,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңThanks to the influence of M.
Morrel, to whom, next to my father, I owe every blessing I enjoy, every
difficulty has been removed. We have purchased permission to waive the
usual delay; and at half-past two oГўВҖВҷclock the Mayor of Marseilles will
be waiting for us at the city hall. Now, as a quarter-past one has
already struck, I do not consider I have asserted too much in saying,
that, in another hour and thirty minutes MercГғВ©dГғВЁs will have become
Madame DantГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

0069m



Fernand closed his eyes, a burning sensation passed across his brow,
and he was compelled to support himself by the table to prevent his
falling from his chair; but in spite of all his efforts, he could not
refrain from uttering a deep groan, which, however, was lost amid the
noisy felicitations of the company.

ГўВҖВңUpon my word,ГўВҖВқ cried the old man, ГўВҖВңyou make short work of this kind of
affair. Arrived here only yesterday morning, and married today at three
oГўВҖВҷclock! Commend me to a sailor for going the quick way to work!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars, in a timid tone, ГўВҖВңhow did you manage about the
other formalitiesГўВҖВ”the contractГўВҖВ”the settlement?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe contract,ГўВҖВқ answered DantГғВЁs, laughingly, ГўВҖВңit didnГўВҖВҷt take long to
fix that. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs has no fortune; I have none to settle on her. So,
you see, our papers were quickly written out, and certainly do not come
very expensive.ГўВҖВқ This joke elicited a fresh burst of applause.

ГўВҖВңSo that what we presumed to be merely the betrothal feast turns out to
be the actual wedding dinner!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ answered DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңdonГўВҖВҷt imagine I am going to put you off in
that shabby manner. Tomorrow morning I start for Paris; four days to
go, and the same to return, with one day to discharge the commission
entrusted to me, is all the time I shall be absent. I shall be back
here by the first of March, and on the second I give my real marriage
feast.ГўВҖВқ

This prospect of fresh festivity redoubled the hilarity of the guests
to such a degree, that the elder DantГғВЁs, who, at the commencement of
the repast, had commented upon the silence that prevailed, now found it
difficult, amid the general din of voices, to obtain a momentГўВҖВҷs
tranquillity in which to drink to the health and prosperity of the
bride and bridegroom.

DantГғВЁs, perceiving the affectionate eagerness of his father, responded
by a look of grateful pleasure; while MercГғВ©dГғВЁs glanced at the clock and
made an expressive gesture to Edmond.

Around the table reigned that noisy hilarity which usually prevails at
such a time among people sufficiently free from the demands of social
position not to feel the trammels of etiquette. Such as at the
commencement of the repast had not been able to seat themselves
according to their inclination rose unceremoniously, and sought out
more agreeable companions. Everybody talked at once, without waiting
for a reply and each one seemed to be contented with expressing his or
her own thoughts.

FernandГўВҖВҷs paleness appeared to have communicated itself to Danglars. As
for Fernand himself, he seemed to be enduring the tortures of the
damned; unable to rest, he was among the first to quit the table, and,
as though seeking to avoid the hilarious mirth that rose in such
deafening sounds, he continued, in utter silence, to pace the farther
end of the salon.

Caderousse approached him just as Danglars, whom Fernand seemed most
anxious to avoid, had joined him in a corner of the room.

ГўВҖВңUpon my word,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, from whose mind the friendly treatment
of DantГғВЁs, united with the effect of the excellent wine he had partaken
of, had effaced every feeling of envy or jealousy at DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ good
fortune,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңupon my word, DantГғВЁs is a downright good fellow, and when I
see him sitting there beside his pretty wife that is so soon to be. I
cannot help thinking it would have been a great pity to have served him
that trick you were planning yesterday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, there was no harm meant,ГўВҖВқ answered Danglars; ГўВҖВңat first I certainly
did feel somewhat uneasy as to what Fernand might be tempted to do; but
when I saw how completely he had mastered his feelings, even so far as
to become one of his rivalГўВҖВҷs attendants, I knew there was no further
cause for apprehension.ГўВҖВқ Caderousse looked full at FernandГўВҖВ”he was
ghastly pale.

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ continued Danglars, ГўВҖВңthe sacrifice was no trifling one,
when the beauty of the bride is concerned. Upon my soul, that future
captain of mine is a lucky dog! Gad! I only wish he would let me take
his place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall we not set forth?ГўВҖВқ asked the sweet, silvery voice of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs;
ГўВҖВңtwo oГўВҖВҷclock has just struck, and you know we are expected in a quarter
of an hour.ГўВҖВқ

0071m



ГўВҖВңTo be sure!ГўВҖВ”to be sure!ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, eagerly quitting the table;
ГўВҖВңlet us go directly!ГўВҖВқ

His words were re-echoed by the whole party, with vociferous cheers.

At this moment Danglars, who had been incessantly observing every
change in FernandГўВҖВҷs look and manner, saw him stagger and fall back,
with an almost convulsive spasm, against a seat placed near one of the
open windows. At the same instant his ear caught a sort of indistinct
sound on the stairs, followed by the measured tread of soldiery, with
the clanking of swords and military accoutrements; then came a hum and
buzz as of many voices, so as to deaden even the noisy mirth of the
bridal party, among whom a vague feeling of curiosity and apprehension
quelled every disposition to talk, and almost instantaneously the most
deathlike stillness prevailed.

The sounds drew nearer. Three blows were struck upon the panel of the
door. The company looked at each other in consternation.

ГўВҖВңI demand admittance,ГўВҖВқ said a loud voice outside the room, ГўВҖВңin the name
of the law!ГўВҖВқ As no attempt was made to prevent it, the door was opened,
and a magistrate, wearing his official scarf, presented himself,
followed by four soldiers and a corporal. Uneasiness now yielded to the
most extreme dread on the part of those present.

ГўВҖВңMay I venture to inquire the reason of this unexpected visit?ГўВҖВқ said M.
Morrel, addressing the magistrate, whom he evidently knew; ГўВҖВңthere is
doubtless some mistake easily explained.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf it be so,ГўВҖВқ replied the magistrate, ГўВҖВңrely upon every reparation
being made; meanwhile, I am the bearer of an order of arrest, and
although I most reluctantly perform the task assigned me, it must,
nevertheless, be fulfilled. Who among the persons here assembled
answers to the name of Edmond DantГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

Every eye was turned towards the young man who, spite of the agitation
he could not but feel, advanced with dignity, and said, in a firm
voice:

ГўВҖВңI am he; what is your pleasure with me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEdmond DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ replied the magistrate, ГўВҖВңI arrest you in the name of
the law!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMe!ГўВҖВқ repeated Edmond, slightly changing color, ГўВҖВңand wherefore, I
pray?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI cannot inform you, but you will be duly acquainted with the reasons
that have rendered such a step necessary at the preliminary
examination.ГўВҖВқ

M. Morrel felt that further resistance or remonstrance was useless. He
saw before him an officer delegated to enforce the law, and perfectly
well knew that it would be as unavailing to seek pity from a magistrate
decked with his official scarf, as to address a petition to some cold
marble effigy. Old DantГғВЁs, however, sprang forward. There are
situations which the heart of a father or a mother cannot be made to
understand. He prayed and supplicated in terms so moving, that even the
officer was touched, and, although firm in his duty, he kindly said,
ГўВҖВңMy worthy friend, let me beg of you to calm your apprehensions. Your
son has probably neglected some prescribed form or attention in
registering his cargo, and it is more than probable he will be set at
liberty directly he has given the information required, whether
touching the health of his crew, or the value of his freight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is the meaning of all this?ГўВҖВқ inquired Caderousse, frowningly, of
Danglars, who had assumed an air of utter surprise.

0073m



ГўВҖВңHow can I tell you?ГўВҖВқ replied he; ГўВҖВңI am, like yourself, utterly
bewildered at all that is going on, and cannot in the least make out
what it is about.ГўВҖВқ Caderousse then looked around for Fernand, but he
had disappeared.

The scene of the previous night now came back to his mind with
startling clearness. The painful catastrophe he had just witnessed
appeared effectually to have rent away the veil which the intoxication
of the evening before had raised between himself and his memory.

ГўВҖВңSo, so,ГўВҖВқ said he, in a hoarse and choking voice, to Danglars, ГўВҖВңthis,
then, I suppose, is a part of the trick you were concerting yesterday?
All I can say is, that if it be so, ГўВҖВҷtis an ill turn, and well deserves
to bring double evil on those who have projected it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNonsense,ГўВҖВқ returned Danglars, ГўВҖВңI tell you again I have nothing
whatever to do with it; besides, you know very well that I tore the
paper to pieces.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, you did not!ГўВҖВқ answered Caderousse, ГўВҖВңyou merely threw it byГўВҖВ”I saw
it lying in a corner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHold your tongue, you fool!ГўВҖВ”what should you know about it?ГўВҖВ”why, you
were drunk!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere is Fernand?ГўВҖВқ inquired Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңHow do I know?ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars; ГўВҖВңgone, as every prudent man ought to
be, to look after his own affairs, most likely. Never mind where he is,
let you and I go and see what is to be done for our poor friends.ГўВҖВқ

During this conversation, DantГғВЁs, after having exchanged a cheerful
shake of the hand with all his sympathizing friends, had surrendered
himself to the officer sent to arrest him, merely saying, ГўВҖВңMake
yourselves quite easy, my good fellows, there is some little mistake to
clear up, thatГўВҖВҷs all, depend upon it; and very likely I may not have to
go so far as the prison to effect that.ГўВҖВқ

0075m



ГўВҖВңOh, to be sure!ГўВҖВқ responded Danglars, who had now approached the group,
ГўВҖВңnothing more than a mistake, I feel quite certain.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs descended the staircase, preceded by the magistrate, and
followed by the soldiers. A carriage awaited him at the door; he got
in, followed by two soldiers and the magistrate, and the vehicle drove
off towards Marseilles.

ГўВҖВңAdieu, adieu, dearest Edmond!ГўВҖВқ cried MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, stretching out her arms
to him from the balcony.

The prisoner heard the cry, which sounded like the sob of a broken
heart, and leaning from the coach he called out, ГўВҖВңGood-bye, MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВ”we
shall soon meet again!ГўВҖВқ Then the vehicle disappeared round one of the
turnings of Fort Saint Nicholas.

ГўВҖВңWait for me here, all of you!ГўВҖВқ cried M. Morrel; ГўВҖВңI will take the first
conveyance I find, and hurry to Marseilles, whence I will bring you
word how all is going on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs right!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed a multitude of voices, ГўВҖВңgo, and return as
quickly as you can!ГўВҖВқ

This second departure was followed by a long and fearful state of
terrified silence on the part of those who were left behind. The old
father and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs remained for some time apart, each absorbed in
grief; but at length the two poor victims of the same blow raised their
eyes, and with a simultaneous burst of feeling rushed into each otherГўВҖВҷs
arms.

Meanwhile Fernand made his appearance, poured out for himself a glass
of water with a trembling hand; then hastily swallowing it, went to sit
down at the first vacant place, and this was, by mere chance, placed
next to the seat on which poor MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had fallen half fainting, when
released from the warm and affectionate embrace of old DantГғВЁs.
Instinctively Fernand drew back his chair.

ГўВҖВңHe is the cause of all this miseryГўВҖВ”I am quite sure of it,ГўВҖВқ whispered
Caderousse, who had never taken his eyes off Fernand, to Danglars.

ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt think so,ГўВҖВқ answered the other; ГўВҖВңheГўВҖВҷs too stupid to imagine
such a scheme. I only hope the mischief will fall upon the head of
whoever wrought it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou donГўВҖВҷt mention those who aided and abetted the deed,ГўВҖВқ said
Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңSurely,ГўВҖВқ answered Danglars, ГўВҖВңone cannot be held responsible for every
chance arrow shot into the air.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou can, indeed, when the arrow lights point downward on somebodyГўВҖВҷs
head.ГўВҖВқ

Meantime the subject of the arrest was being canvassed in every
different form.

ГўВҖВңWhat think you, Danglars,ГўВҖВқ said one of the party, turning towards him,
ГўВҖВңof this event?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ replied he, ГўВҖВңI think it just possible DantГғВЁs may have been
detected with some trifling article on board ship considered here as
contraband.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut how could he have done so without your knowledge, Danglars, since
you are the shipГўВҖВҷs supercargo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, as for that, I could only know what I was told respecting the
merchandise with which the vessel was laden. I know she was loaded with
cotton, and that she took in her freight at Alexandria from PastretГўВҖВҷs
warehouse, and at Smyrna from PascalГўВҖВҷs; that is all I was obliged to
know, and I beg I may not be asked for any further particulars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow I recollect,ГўВҖВқ said the afflicted old father; ГўВҖВңmy poor boy told me
yesterday he had got a small case of coffee, and another of tobacco for
me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere, you see,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Danglars. ГўВҖВңNow the mischief is out; depend
upon it the custom-house people went rummaging about the ship in our
absence, and discovered poor DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ hidden treasures.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, however, paid no heed to this explanation of her loverГўВҖВҷs
arrest. Her grief, which she had hitherto tried to restrain, now burst
out in a violent fit of hysterical sobbing.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said the old man, ГўВҖВңbe comforted, my poor child; there is
still hope!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHope!ГўВҖВқ repeated Danglars.

ГўВҖВңHope!ГўВҖВқ faintly murmured Fernand, but the word seemed to die away on
his pale agitated lips, and a convulsive spasm passed over his
countenance.

ГўВҖВңGood news! good news!ГўВҖВқ shouted forth one of the party stationed in the
balcony on the lookout. ГўВҖВңHere comes M. Morrel back. No doubt, now, we
shall hear that our friend is released!ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs and the old man rushed to meet the shipowner and greeted him
at the door. He was very pale.

ГўВҖВңWhat news?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed a general burst of voices.

ГўВҖВңAlas, my friends,ГўВҖВқ replied M. Morrel, with a mournful shake of his
head, ГўВҖВңthe thing has assumed a more serious aspect than I expected.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, indeedГўВҖВ”indeed, sir, he is innocent!ГўВҖВқ sobbed forth MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңThat I believe!ГўВҖВқ answered M. Morrel; ГўВҖВңbut still he is chargedГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith what?ГўВҖВқ inquired the elder DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWith being an agent of the Bonapartist faction!ГўВҖВқ Many of our readers
may be able to recollect how formidable such an accusation became in
the period at which our story is dated.

A despairing cry escaped the pale lips of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; the old man sank
into a chair.

ГўВҖВңAh, Danglars!ГўВҖВқ whispered Caderousse, ГўВҖВңyou have deceived meГўВҖВ”the trick
you spoke of last night has been played; but I cannot suffer a poor old
man or an innocent girl to die of grief through your fault. I am
determined to tell them all about it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe silent, you simpleton!ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars, grasping him by the arm,
ГўВҖВңor I will not answer even for your own safety. Who can tell whether
DantГғВЁs be innocent or guilty? The vessel did touch at Elba, where he
quitted it, and passed a whole day in the island. Now, should any
letters or other documents of a compromising character be found upon
him, will it not be taken for granted that all who uphold him are his
accomplices?ГўВҖВқ

With the rapid instinct of selfishness, Caderousse readily perceived
the solidity of this mode of reasoning; he gazed, doubtfully,
wistfully, on Danglars, and then caution supplanted generosity.

ГўВҖВңSuppose we wait a while, and see what comes of it,ГўВҖВқ said he, casting a
bewildered look on his companion.

ГўВҖВңTo be sure!ГўВҖВқ answered Danglars. ГўВҖВңLet us wait, by all means. If he be
innocent, of course he will be set at liberty; if guilty, why, it is no
use involving ourselves in a conspiracy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us go, then. I cannot stay here any longer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith all my heart!ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, pleased to find the other so
tractable. ГўВҖВңLet us take ourselves out of the way, and leave things for
the present to take their course.ГўВҖВқ

After their departure, Fernand, who had now again become the friend and
protector of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, led the girl to her home, while some friends of
DantГғВЁs conducted his father, nearly lifeless, to the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan.

The rumor of EdmondГўВҖВҷs arrest as a Bonapartist agent was not slow in
circulating throughout the city.

ГўВҖВңCould you ever have credited such a thing, my dear Danglars?ГўВҖВқ asked M.
Morrel, as, on his return to the port for the purpose of gleaning fresh
tidings of DantГғВЁs, from M. de Villefort, the assistant procureur, he
overtook his supercargo and Caderousse. ГўВҖВңCould you have believed such a
thing possible?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you know I told you,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat I considered the
circumstance of his having anchored at the Island of Elba as a very
suspicious circumstance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd did you mention these suspicions to any person beside myself?ГўВҖВқ

0079m



ГўВҖВңCertainly not!ГўВҖВқ returned Danglars. Then added in a low whisper, ГўВҖВңYou
understand that, on account of your uncle, M. Policar Morrel, who
served under the _other_ government, and who does not altogether
conceal what he thinks on the subject, you are strongly suspected of
regretting the abdication of Napoleon. I should have feared to injure
both Edmond and yourself, had I divulged my own apprehensions to a
soul. I am too well aware that though a subordinate, like myself, is
bound to acquaint the shipowner with everything that occurs, there are
many things he ought most carefully to conceal from all else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis well, DanglarsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷtis well!ГўВҖВқ replied M. Morrel. ГўВҖВңYou are a worthy
fellow; and I had already thought of your interests in the event of
poor Edmond having become captain of the _Pharaon_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible you were so kind?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed; I had previously inquired of DantГғВЁs what was his opinion
of you, and if he should have any reluctance to continue you in your
post, for somehow I have perceived a sort of coolness between you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what was his reply?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat he certainly did think he had given you offence in an affair
which he merely referred to without entering into particulars, but that
whoever possessed the good opinion and confidence of the shipГўВҖВҷs owners
would have his preference also.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe hypocrite!ГўВҖВқ murmured Danglars.

ГўВҖВңPoor DantГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңNo one can deny his being a
noble-hearted young fellow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut meanwhile,ГўВҖВқ continued M. Morrel, ГўВҖВңhere is the _Pharaon_ without a
captain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, ГўВҖВңsince we cannot leave this port for the next
three months, let us hope that ere the expiration of that period DantГғВЁs
will be set at liberty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo doubt; but in the meantime?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am entirely at your service, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ answered Danglars. ГўВҖВңYou
know that I am as capable of managing a ship as the most experienced
captain in the service; and it will be so far advantageous to you to
accept my services, that upon EdmondГўВҖВҷs release from prison no further
change will be requisite on board the _Pharaon_ than for DantГғВЁs and
myself each to resume our respective posts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThanks, DanglarsГўВҖВ”that will smooth over all difficulties. I fully
authorize you at once to assume the command of the _Pharaon_, and look
carefully to the unloading of her freight. Private misfortunes must
never be allowed to interfere with business.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe easy on that score, M. Morrel; but do you think we shall be
permitted to see our poor Edmond?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will let you know that directly I have seen M. de Villefort, whom I
shall endeavor to interest in EdmondГўВҖВҷs favor. I am aware he is a
furious royalist; but, in spite of that, and of his being kingГўВҖВҷs
attorney, he is a man like ourselves, and I fancy not a bad sort of
one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps not,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars; ГўВҖВңbut I hear that he is ambitious, and
thatГўВҖВҷs rather against him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, well,ГўВҖВқ returned M. Morrel, ГўВҖВңwe shall see. But now hasten on
board, I will join you there ere long.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, the worthy shipowner quitted the two allies, and proceeded
in the direction of the Palais de Justice.

0081m



ГўВҖВңYou see,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, addressing Caderousse, ГўВҖВңthe turn things have
taken. Do you still feel any desire to stand up in his defence?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot the slightest, but yet it seems to me a shocking thing that a mere
joke should lead to such consequences.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut who perpetrated that joke, let me ask? neither you nor myself, but
Fernand; you knew very well that I threw the paper into a corner of the
roomГўВҖВ”indeed, I fancied I had destroyed it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВңthat I can answer for, you did not. I
only wish I could see it now as plainly as I saw it lying all crushed
and crumpled in a corner of the arbor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, if you did, depend upon it, Fernand picked it up, and
either copied it or caused it to be copied; perhaps, even, he did not
take the trouble of recopying it. And now I think of it, by Heavens, he
may have sent the letter itself! Fortunately, for me, the handwriting
was disguised.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you were aware of DantГғВЁs being engaged in a conspiracy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot I. As I before said, I thought the whole thing was a joke, nothing
more. It seems, however, that I have unconsciously stumbled upon the
truth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill,ГўВҖВқ argued Caderousse, ГўВҖВңI would give a great deal if nothing of
the kind had happened; or, at least, that I had had no hand in it. You
will see, Danglars, that it will turn out an unlucky job for both of
us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNonsense! If any harm come of it, it should fall on the guilty person;
and that, you know, is Fernand. How can we be implicated in any way?
All we have got to do is, to keep our own counsel, and remain perfectly
quiet, not breathing a word to any living soul; and you will see that
the storm will pass away without in the least affecting us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAmen!ГўВҖВқ responded Caderousse, waving his hand in token of adieu to
Danglars, and bending his steps towards the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan, moving
his head to and fro, and muttering as he went, after the manner of one
whose mind was overcharged with one absorbing idea.

ГўВҖВңSo far, then,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, mentally, ГўВҖВңall has gone as I would have
it. I am, temporarily, commander of the _Pharaon_, with the certainty
of being permanently so, if that fool of a Caderousse can be persuaded
to hold his tongue. My only fear is the chance of DantГғВЁs being
released. But, there, he is in the hands of Justice; and,ГўВҖВқ added he
with a smile, ГўВҖВңshe will take her own.ГўВҖВқ So saying, he leaped into a
boat, desiring to be rowed on board the _Pharaon_, where M. Morrel had
agreed to meet him.



 Chapter 6. The Deputy Procureur du Roi

In one of the aristocratic mansions built by Puget in the Rue du Grand
Cours opposite the Medusa fountain, a second marriage feast was being
celebrated, almost at the same hour with the nuptial repast given by
DantГғВЁs. In this case, however, although the occasion of the
entertainment was similar, the company was strikingly dissimilar.
Instead of a rude mixture of sailors, soldiers, and those belonging to
the humblest grade of life, the present assembly was composed of the
very flower of Marseilles society,ГўВҖВ”magistrates who had resigned their
office during the usurperГўВҖВҷs reign; officers who had deserted from the
imperial army and joined forces with CondГғВ©; and younger members of
families, brought up to hate and execrate the man whom five years of
exile would convert into a martyr, and fifteen of restoration elevate
to the rank of a god.

The guests were still at table, and the heated and energetic
conversation that prevailed betrayed the violent and vindictive
passions that then agitated each dweller of the South, where unhappily,
for five centuries religious strife had long given increased bitterness
to the violence of party feeling.

The emperor, now king of the petty Island of Elba, after having held
sovereign sway over one-half of the world, counting as his subjects a
small population of five or six thousand souls,ГўВҖВ”after having been
accustomed to hear the ГўВҖВң_Vive NapolГғВ©ons_ГўВҖВқ of a hundred and twenty
millions of human beings, uttered in ten different languages,ГўВҖВ”was
looked upon here as a ruined man, separated forever from any fresh
connection with France or claim to her throne.

The magistrates freely discussed their political views; the military
part of the company talked unreservedly of Moscow and Leipsic, while
the women commented on the divorce of Josephine. It was not over the
downfall of the man, but over the defeat of the Napoleonic idea, that
they rejoiced, and in this they foresaw for themselves the bright and
cheering prospect of a revivified political existence.

An old man, decorated with the cross of Saint Louis, now rose and
proposed the health of King Louis XVIII. It was the Marquis de
Saint-MГғВ©ran. This toast, recalling at once the patient exile of
Hartwell and the peace-loving King of France, excited universal
enthusiasm; glasses were elevated in the air _ГғВ  lГўВҖВҷAnglaise_, and the
ladies, snatching their bouquets from their fair bosoms, strewed the
table with their floral treasures. In a word, an almost poetical fervor
prevailed.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the Marquise de Saint-MГғВ©ran, a woman with a stern,
forbidding eye, though still noble and distinguished in appearance,
despite her fifty yearsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңah, these revolutionists, who have driven us
from those very possessions they afterwards purchased for a mere trifle
during the Reign of Terror, would be compelled to own, were they here,
that all true devotion was on our side, since we were content to follow
the fortunes of a falling monarch, while they, on the contrary, made
their fortune by worshipping the rising sun; yes, yes, they could not
help admitting that the king, for whom we sacrificed rank, wealth, and
station was truly our ГўВҖВҳLouis the well-beloved,ГўВҖВҷ while their wretched
usurper has been, and ever will be, to them their evil genius, their
ГўВҖВҳNapoleon the accursed.ГўВҖВҷ Am I not right, Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI beg your pardon, madame. I really must pray you to excuse me, butГўВҖВ”in
truthГўВҖВ”I was not attending to the conversation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMarquise, marquise!ГўВҖВқ interposed the old nobleman who had proposed the
toast, ГўВҖВңlet the young people alone; let me tell you, on oneГўВҖВҷs wedding
day there are more agreeable subjects of conversation than dry
politics.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind, dearest mother,ГўВҖВқ said a young and lovely girl, with a
profusion of light brown hair, and eyes that seemed to float in liquid
crystal, ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷtis all my fault for seizing upon M. de Villefort, so as to
prevent his listening to what you said. But thereГўВҖВ”now take himГўВҖВ”he is
your own for as long as you like. M. Villefort, I beg to remind you my
mother speaks to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf the marquise will deign to repeat the words I but imperfectly
caught, I shall be delighted to answer,ГўВҖВқ said M. de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңNever mind, RenГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ replied the marquise, with a look of tenderness
that seemed out of keeping with her harsh dry features; but, however
all other feelings may be withered in a womanГўВҖВҷs nature, there is always
one bright smiling spot in the desert of her heart, and that is the
shrine of maternal love. ГўВҖВңI forgive you. What I was saying, Villefort,
was, that the Bonapartists had not our sincerity, enthusiasm, or
devotion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey had, however, what supplied the place of those fine qualities,ГўВҖВқ
replied the young man, ГўВҖВңand that was fanaticism. Napoleon is the
Mahomet of the West, and is worshipped by his commonplace but ambitious
followers, not only as a leader and lawgiver, but also as the
personification of equality.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe!ГўВҖВқ cried the marquise: ГўВҖВңNapoleon the type of equality! For mercyГўВҖВҷs
sake, then, what would you call Robespierre? Come, come, do not strip
the latter of his just rights to bestow them on the Corsican, who, to
my mind, has usurped quite enough.ГўВҖВқ

0085m



ГўВҖВңNay, madame; I would place each of these heroes on his right
pedestalГўВҖВ”that of Robespierre on his scaffold in the Place Louis Quinze;
that of Napoleon on the column of the Place VendГғВҙme. The only
difference consists in the opposite character of the equality advocated
by these two men; one is the equality that elevates, the other is the
equality that degrades; one brings a king within reach of the
guillotine, the other elevates the people to a level with the throne.
Observe,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, smiling, ГўВҖВңI do not mean to deny that both
these men were revolutionary scoundrels, and that the 9th Thermidor and
the 4th of April, in the year 1814, were lucky days for France, worthy
of being gratefully remembered by every friend to monarchy and civil
order; and that explains how it comes to pass that, fallen, as I trust
he is forever, Napoleon has still retained a train of parasitical
satellites. Still, marquise, it has been so with other
usurpersГўВҖВ”Cromwell, for instance, who was not half so bad as Napoleon,
had his partisans and advocates.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know, Villefort, that you are talking in a most dreadfully
revolutionary strain? But I excuse it, it is impossible to expect the
son of a Girondin to be free from a small spice of the old leaven.ГўВҖВқ A
deep crimson suffused the countenance of Villefort.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis true, madame,ГўВҖВқ answered he, ГўВҖВңthat my father was a Girondin, but
he was not among the number of those who voted for the kingГўВҖВҷs death; he
was an equal sufferer with yourself during the Reign of Terror, and had
well-nigh lost his head on the same scaffold on which your father
perished.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ replied the marquise, without wincing in the slightest degree
at the tragic remembrance thus called up; ГўВҖВңbut bear in mind, if you
please, that our respective parents underwent persecution and
proscription from diametrically opposite principles; in proof of which
I may remark, that while my family remained among the staunchest
adherents of the exiled princes, your father lost no time in joining
the new government; and that while the Citizen Noirtier was a Girondin,
the Count Noirtier became a senator.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDear mother,ГўВҖВқ interposed RenГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңyou know very well it was agreed that
all these disagreeable reminiscences should forever be laid aside.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSuffer me, also, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, ГўВҖВңto add my earnest
request to Mademoiselle de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs, that you will kindly allow
the veil of oblivion to cover and conceal the past. What avails
recrimination over matters wholly past recall? For my own part, I have
laid aside even the name of my father, and altogether disown his
political principles. He wasГўВҖВ”nay, probably may still beГўВҖВ”a Bonapartist,
and is called Noirtier; I, on the contrary, am a staunch royalist, and
style myself de Villefort. Let what may remain of revolutionary sap
exhaust itself and die away with the old trunk, and condescend only to
regard the young shoot which has started up at a distance from the
parent tree, without having the power, any more than the wish, to
separate entirely from the stock from which it sprung.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBravo, Villefort!ГўВҖВқ cried the marquis; ГўВҖВңexcellently well said! Come,
now, I have hopes of obtaining what I have been for years endeavoring
to persuade the marquise to promise; namely, a perfect amnesty and
forgetfulness of the past.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith all my heart,ГўВҖВқ replied the marquise; ГўВҖВңlet the past be forever
forgotten. I promise you it affords _me_ as little pleasure to revive
it as it does you. All I ask is, that Villefort will be firm and
inflexible for the future in his political principles. Remember, also,
Villefort, that we have pledged ourselves to his majesty for your
fealty and strict loyalty, and that at our recommendation the king
consented to forget the past, as I doГўВҖВқ (and here she extended to him
her hand)ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңas I now do at your entreaty. But bear in mind, that should
there fall in your way anyone guilty of conspiring against the
government, you will be so much the more bound to visit the offence
with rigorous punishment, as it is known you belong to a suspected
family.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, madame,ГўВҖВқ returned Villefort, ГўВҖВңmy profession, as well as the
times in which we live, compels me to be severe. I have already
successfully conducted several public prosecutions, and brought the
offenders to merited punishment. But we have not done with the thing
yet.ГўВҖВқ

0087m



ГўВҖВңDo you, indeed, think so?ГўВҖВқ inquired the marquise.

ГўВҖВңI am, at least, fearful of it. Napoleon, in the Island of Elba, is too
near France, and his proximity keeps up the hopes of his partisans.
Marseilles is filled with half-pay officers, who are daily, under one
frivolous pretext or other, getting up quarrels with the royalists;
from hence arise continual and fatal duels among the higher classes of
persons, and assassinations in the lower.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have heard, perhaps,ГўВҖВқ said the Comte de Salvieux, one of M. de
Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs oldest friends, and chamberlain to the Comte dГўВҖВҷArtois,
ГўВҖВңthat the Holy Alliance purpose removing him from thence?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; they were talking about it when we left Paris,ГўВҖВқ said M. de
Saint-MГғВ©ran; ГўВҖВңand where is it decided to transfer him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Saint Helena.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor heavenГўВҖВҷs sake, where is that?ГўВҖВқ asked the marquise.

ГўВҖВңAn island situated on the other side of the equator, at least two
thousand leagues from here,ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

ГўВҖВңSo much the better. As Villefort observes, it is a great act of folly
to have left such a man between Corsica, where he was born, and Naples,
of which his brother-in-law is king, and face to face with Italy, the
sovereignty of which he coveted for his son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnfortunately,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңthere are the treaties of 1814, and
we cannot molest Napoleon without breaking those compacts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, well, we shall find some way out of it,ГўВҖВқ responded M. de Salvieux.
ГўВҖВңThere wasnГўВҖВҷt any trouble over treaties when it was a question of
shooting the poor Duc dГўВҖВҷEnghien.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the marquise, ГўВҖВңit seems probable that, by the aid of the
Holy Alliance, we shall be rid of Napoleon; and we must trust to the
vigilance of M. de Villefort to purify Marseilles of his partisans. The
king is either a king or no king; if he be acknowledged as sovereign of
France, he should be upheld in peace and tranquillity; and this can
best be effected by employing the most inflexible agents to put down
every attempt at conspiracyГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷtis the best and surest means of
preventing mischief.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnfortunately, madame,ГўВҖВқ answered Villefort, ГўВҖВңthe strong arm of the law
is not called upon to interfere until the evil has taken place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen all he has got to do is to endeavor to repair it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, madame, the law is frequently powerless to effect this; all it
can do is to avenge the wrong done.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ cried a beautiful young creature, daughter to
the Comte de Salvieux, and the cherished friend of Mademoiselle de
Saint-MГғВ©ran, ГўВҖВңdo try and get up some famous trial while we are at
Marseilles. I never was in a law-court; I am told it is so very
amusing!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAmusing, certainly,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, ГўВҖВңinasmuch as, instead of
shedding tears as at the fictitious tale of woe produced at a theatre,
you behold in a law-court a case of real and genuine distressГўВҖВ”a drama
of life. The prisoner whom you there see pale, agitated, and alarmed,
instead ofГўВҖВ”as is the case when a curtain falls on a tragedyГўВҖВ”going home
to sup peacefully with his family, and then retiring to rest, that he
may recommence his mimic woes on the morrow,ГўВҖВ”is removed from your sight
merely to be reconducted to his prison and delivered up to the
executioner. I leave you to judge how far your nerves are calculated to
bear you through such a scene. Of this, however, be assured, that
should any favorable opportunity present itself, I will not fail to
offer you the choice of being present.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor shame, M. de Villefort!ГўВҖВқ said RenГғВ©e, becoming quite pale; ГўВҖВңdonГўВҖВҷt
you see how you are frightening us?ГўВҖВ”and yet you laugh.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat would you have? ГўВҖВҷTis like a duel. I have already recorded
sentence of death, five or six times, against the movers of political
conspiracies, and who can say how many daggers may be ready sharpened,
and only waiting a favorable opportunity to be buried in my heart?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGracious heavens, M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ said RenГғВ©e, becoming more and more
terrified; ГўВҖВңyou surely are not in earnest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed I am,ГўВҖВқ replied the young magistrate with a smile; ГўВҖВңand in the
interesting trial that young lady is anxious to witness, the case would
only be still more aggravated. Suppose, for instance, the prisoner, as
is more than probable, to have served under NapoleonГўВҖВ”well, can you
expect for an instant, that one accustomed, at the word of his
commander, to rush fearlessly on the very bayonets of his foe, will
scruple more to drive a stiletto into the heart of one he knows to be
his personal enemy, than to slaughter his fellow-creatures, merely
because bidden to do so by one he is bound to obey? Besides, one
requires the excitement of being hateful in the eyes of the accused, in
order to lash oneГўВҖВҷs self into a state of sufficient vehemence and
power. I would not choose to see the man against whom I pleaded smile,
as though in mockery of my words. No; my pride is to see the accused
pale, agitated, and as though beaten out of all composure by the fire
of my eloquence.ГўВҖВқ RenГғВ©e uttered a smothered exclamation.

ГўВҖВңBravo!ГўВҖВқ cried one of the guests; ГўВҖВңthat is what I call talking to some
purpose.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust the person we require at a time like the present,ГўВҖВқ said a second.

ГўВҖВңWhat a splendid business that last case of yours was, my dear
Villefort!ГўВҖВқ remarked a third; ГўВҖВңI mean the trial of the man for
murdering his father. Upon my word, you killed him ere the executioner
had laid his hand upon him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, as for parricides, and such dreadful people as that,ГўВҖВқ interposed
RenГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңit matters very little what is done to them; but as regards
poor unfortunate creatures whose only crime consists in having mixed
themselves up in political intriguesГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, that is the very worst offence they could possibly commit; for,
donГўВҖВҷt you see, RenГғВ©e, the king is the father of his people, and he who
shall plot or contrive aught against the life and safety of the parent
of thirty-two millions of souls, is a parricide upon a fearfully great
scale?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt know anything about that,ГўВҖВқ replied RenГғВ©e; ГўВҖВңbut, M. de
Villefort, you have promised meГўВҖВ”have you not?ГўВҖВ”always to show mercy to
those I plead for.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMake yourself quite easy on that point,ГўВҖВқ answered Villefort, with one
of his sweetest smiles; ГўВҖВңyou and I will always consult upon our
verdicts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy love,ГўВҖВқ said the marquise, ГўВҖВңattend to your doves, your lap-dogs, and
embroidery, but do not meddle with what you do not understand. Nowadays
the military profession is in abeyance and the magisterial robe is the
badge of honor. There is a wise Latin proverb that is very much in
point.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Cedant arma togГғВҰ_,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort with a bow.

ГўВҖВңI cannot speak Latin,ГўВҖВқ responded the marquise.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said RenГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңI cannot help regretting you had not chosen some
other profession than your ownГўВҖВ”a physician, for instance. Do you know I
always felt a shudder at the idea of even a _destroying_ angel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDear, good RenГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ whispered Villefort, as he gazed with unutterable
tenderness on the lovely speaker.

ГўВҖВңLet us hope, my child,ГўВҖВқ cried the marquis, ГўВҖВңthat M. de Villefort may
prove the moral and political physician of this province; if so, he
will have achieved a noble work.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd one which will go far to efface the recollection of his fatherГўВҖВҷs
conduct,ГўВҖВқ added the incorrigible marquise.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, with a mournful smile, ГўВҖВңI have already had
the honor to observe that my father hasГўВҖВ”at least, I hope soГўВҖВ”abjured his
past errors, and that he is, at the present moment, a firm and zealous
friend to religion and orderГўВҖВ”a better royalist, possibly, than his son;
for he has to atone for past dereliction, while I have no other impulse
than warm, decided preference and conviction.ГўВҖВқ Having made this
well-turned speech, Villefort looked carefully around to mark the
effect of his oratory, much as he would have done had he been
addressing the bench in open court.

ГўВҖВңDo you know, my dear Villefort,ГўВҖВқ cried the Comte de Salvieux, ГўВҖВңthat is
exactly what I myself said the other day at the Tuileries, when
questioned by his majestyГўВҖВҷs principal chamberlain touching the
singularity of an alliance between the son of a Girondin and the
daughter of an officer of the Duc de CondГғВ©; and I assure you he seemed
fully to comprehend that this mode of reconciling political differences
was based upon sound and excellent principles. Then the king, who,
without our suspecting it, had overheard our conversation, interrupted
us by saying, ГўВҖВҳVillefortГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”observe that the king did not pronounce the
word Noirtier, but, on the contrary, placed considerable emphasis on
that of VillefortГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳVillefort,ГўВҖВҷ said his majesty, ГўВҖВҳis a young man of
great judgment and discretion, who will be sure to make a figure in his
profession; I like him much, and it gave me great pleasure to hear that
he was about to become the son-in-law of the Marquis and Marquise de
Saint-MГғВ©ran. I should myself have recommended the match, had not the
noble marquis anticipated my wishes by requesting my consent to it.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible the king could have condescended so far as to express
himself so favorably of me?ГўВҖВқ asked the enraptured Villefort.

ГўВҖВңI give you his very words; and if the marquis chooses to be candid, he
will confess that they perfectly agree with what his majesty said to
him, when he went six months ago to consult him upon the subject of
your espousing his daughter.ГўВҖВқ

0091m



ГўВҖВңThat is true,ГўВҖВқ answered the marquis.

ГўВҖВңHow much do I owe this gracious prince! What is there I would not do
to evince my earnest gratitude!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is right,ГўВҖВқ cried the marquise. ГўВҖВңI love to see you thus. Now,
then, were a conspirator to fall into your hands, he would be most
welcome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor my part, dear mother,ГўВҖВқ interposed RenГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңI trust your wishes will
not prosper, and that Providence will only permit petty offenders, poor
debtors, and miserable cheats to fall into M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs
hands,ГўВҖВ”then I shall be contented.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust the same as though you prayed that a physician might only be
called upon to prescribe for headaches, measles, and the stings of
wasps, or any other slight affection of the epidermis. If you wish to
see me the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, you must desire for me some of those
violent and dangerous diseases from the cure of which so much honor
redounds to the physician.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment, and as though the utterance of VillefortГўВҖВҷs wish had
sufficed to effect its accomplishment, a servant entered the room, and
whispered a few words in his ear. Villefort immediately rose from table
and quitted the room upon the plea of urgent business; he soon,
however, returned, his whole face beaming with delight. RenГғВ©e regarded
him with fond affection; and certainly his handsome features, lit up as
they then were with more than usual fire and animation, seemed formed
to excite the innocent admiration with which she gazed on her graceful
and intelligent lover.

ГўВҖВңYou were wishing just now,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, addressing her, ГўВҖВңthat I
were a doctor instead of a lawyer. Well, I at least resemble the
disciples of Esculapius in one thing [people spoke in this style in
1815], that of not being able to call a day my own, not even that of my
betrothal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd wherefore were you called away just now?ГўВҖВқ asked Mademoiselle de
Saint-MГғВ©ran, with an air of deep interest.

ГўВҖВңFor a very serious matter, which bids fair to make work for the
executioner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow dreadful!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed RenГғВ©e, turning pale.

ГўВҖВңIs it possible?ГўВҖВқ burst simultaneously from all who were near enough to
the magistrate to hear his words.

ГўВҖВңWhy, if my information prove correct, a sort of Bonapartist conspiracy
has just been discovered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan I believe my ears?ГўВҖВқ cried the marquise.

ГўВҖВңI will read you the letter containing the accusation, at least,ГўВҖВқ said
Villefort:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe kingГўВҖВҷs attorney is informed by a friend to the throne and the
religious institutions of his country, that one named Edmond DantГғВЁs,
mate of the ship _Pharaon_, this day arrived from Smyrna, after having
touched at Naples and Porto-Ferrajo, has been the bearer of a letter
from Murat to the usurper, and again taken charge of another letter
from the usurper to the Bonapartist club in Paris. Ample corroboration
of this statement may be obtained by arresting the above-mentioned
Edmond DantГғВЁs, who either carries the letter for Paris about with him,
or has it at his fatherГўВҖВҷs abode. Should it not be found in the
possession of father or son, then it will assuredly be discovered in
the cabin belonging to the said DantГғВЁs on board the _Pharaon_.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said RenГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңthis letter, which, after all, is but an anonymous
scrawl, is not even addressed to you, but to the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney.ГўВҖВқ

0093m



ГўВҖВңTrue; but that gentleman being absent, his secretary, by his orders,
opened his letters; thinking this one of importance, he sent for me,
but not finding me, took upon himself to give the necessary orders for
arresting the accused party.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen the guilty person is absolutely in custody?ГўВҖВқ said the marquise.

ГўВҖВңNay, dear mother, say the accused person. You know we cannot yet
pronounce him guilty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is in safe custody,ГўВҖВқ answered Villefort; ГўВҖВңand rely upon it, if the
letter is found, he will not be likely to be trusted abroad again,
unless he goes forth under the especial protection of the headsman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where is the unfortunate being?ГўВҖВқ asked RenГғВ©e.

ГўВҖВңHe is at my house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come, my friend,ГўВҖВқ interrupted the marquise, ГўВҖВңdo not neglect your
duty to linger with us. You are the kingГўВҖВҷs servant, and must go
wherever that service calls you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, Villefort!ГўВҖВқ cried RenГғВ©e, clasping her hands, and looking towards
her lover with piteous earnestness, ГўВҖВңbe merciful on this the day of our
betrothal.ГўВҖВқ

The young man passed round to the side of the table where the fair
pleader sat, and leaning over her chair said tenderly:

ГўВҖВңTo give you pleasure, my sweet RenГғВ©e, I promise to show all the lenity
in my power; but if the charges brought against this Bonapartist hero
prove correct, why, then, you really must give me leave to order his
head to be cut off.ГўВҖВқ

RenГғВ©e shuddered at the word _cut_, for the growth in question had a
head.

ГўВҖВңNever mind that foolish girl, Villefort,ГўВҖВқ said the marquise. ГўВҖВңShe will
soon get over these things.ГўВҖВқ So saying, Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran extended
her dry bony hand to Villefort, who, while imprinting a son-in-lawГўВҖВҷs
respectful salute on it, looked at RenГғВ©e, as much as to say, ГўВҖВңI must
try and fancy ГўВҖВҷtis your dear hand I kiss, as it should have been.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThese are mournful auspices to accompany a betrothal,ГўВҖВқ sighed poor
RenГғВ©e.

ГўВҖВңUpon my word, child!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the angry marquise, ГўВҖВңyour folly
exceeds all bounds. I should be glad to know what connection there can
possibly be between your sickly sentimentality and the affairs of the
state!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, mother!ГўВҖВқ murmured RenГғВ©e.

ГўВҖВңNay, madame, I pray you pardon this little traitor. I promise you that
to make up for her want of loyalty, I will be most inflexibly severe;ГўВҖВқ
then casting an expressive glance at his betrothed, which seemed to
say, ГўВҖВңFear not, for your dear sake my justice shall be tempered with
mercy,ГўВҖВқ and receiving a sweet and approving smile in return, Villefort
departed with paradise in his heart.



 Chapter 7. The Examination

No sooner had Villefort left the salon, than he assumed the grave air
of a man who holds the balance of life and death in his hands. Now, in
spite of the nobility of his countenance, the command of which, like a
finished actor, he had carefully studied before the glass, it was by no
means easy for him to assume an air of judicial severity. Except the
recollection of the line of politics his father had adopted, and which
might interfere, unless he acted with the greatest prudence, with his
own career, GГғВ©rard de Villefort was as happy as a man could be. Already
rich, he held a high official situation, though only twenty-seven. He
was about to marry a young and charming woman, whom he loved, not
passionately, but reasonably, as became a deputy attorney of the king;
and besides her personal attractions, which were very great,
Mademoiselle de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs family possessed considerable political
influence, which they would, of course, exert in his favor. The dowry
of his wife amounted to fifty thousand crowns, and he had, besides, the
prospect of seeing her fortune increased to half a million at her
fatherГўВҖВҷs death. These considerations naturally gave Villefort a feeling
of such complete felicity that his mind was fairly dazzled in its
contemplation.

At the door he met the commissary of police, who was waiting for him.
The sight of this officer recalled Villefort from the third heaven to
earth; he composed his face, as we have before described, and said, ГўВҖВңI
have read the letter, sir, and you have acted rightly in arresting this
man; now inform me what you have discovered concerning him and the
conspiracy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe know nothing as yet of the conspiracy, monsieur; all the papers
found have been sealed up and placed on your desk. The prisoner himself
is named Edmond DantГғВЁs, mate on board the three-master the _Pharaon_,
trading in cotton with Alexandria and Smyrna, and belonging to Morrel &
Son, of Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBefore he entered the merchant service, had he ever served in the
marines?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, monsieur, he is very young.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow old?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNineteen or twenty at the most.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment, and as Villefort had arrived at the corner of the Rue
des Conseils, a man, who seemed to have been waiting for him,
approached; it was M. Morrel.

ГўВҖВңAh, M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ cried he, ГўВҖВңI am delighted to see you. Some of
your people have committed the strangest mistakeГўВҖВ”they have just
arrested Edmond DantГғВЁs, mate of my vessel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, ГўВҖВңand I am now going to
examine him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, carried away by his friendship, ГўВҖВңyou do not know
him, and I do. He is the most estimable, the most trustworthy creature
in the world, and I will venture to say, there is not a better seaman
in all the merchant service. Oh, M. de Villefort, I beseech your
indulgence for him.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort, as we have seen, belonged to the aristocratic party at
Marseilles, Morrel to the plebeian; the first was a royalist, the other
suspected of Bonapartism. Villefort looked disdainfully at Morrel, and
replied coldly:

ГўВҖВңYou are aware, monsieur, that a man may be estimable and trustworthy
in private life, and the best seaman in the merchant service, and yet
be, politically speaking, a great criminal. Is it not true?ГўВҖВқ

The magistrate laid emphasis on these words, as if he wished to apply
them to the owner himself, while his eyes seemed to plunge into the
heart of one who, interceding for another, had himself need of
indulgence. Morrel reddened, for his own conscience was not quite clear
on politics; besides, what DantГғВЁs had told him of his interview with
the grand-marshal, and what the emperor had said to him, embarrassed
him. He replied, however, in a tone of deep interest:

ГўВҖВңI entreat you, M. de Villefort, be, as you always are, kind and
equitable, and give him back to us soon.ГўВҖВқ This _give us_ sounded
revolutionary in the deputyГўВҖВҷs ears.

ГўВҖВңAh, ah,ГўВҖВқ murmured he, ГўВҖВңis DantГғВЁs then a member of some Carbonari
society, that his protector thus employs the collective form? He was,
if I recollect, arrested in a tavern, in company with a great many
others.ГўВҖВқ Then he added, ГўВҖВңMonsieur, you may rest assured I shall perform
my duty impartially, and that if he be innocent you shall not have
appealed to me in vain; should he, however, be guilty, in this present
epoch, impunity would furnish a dangerous example, and I must do my
duty.ГўВҖВқ

0097m



As he had now arrived at the door of his own house, which adjoined the
Palais de Justice, he entered, after having, coldly saluted the
shipowner, who stood, as if petrified, on the spot where Villefort had
left him. The antechamber was full of police agents and gendarmes, in
the midst of whom, carefully watched, but calm and smiling, stood the
prisoner. Villefort traversed the antechamber, cast a side glance at
DantГғВЁs, and taking a packet which a gendarme offered him, disappeared,
saying, ГўВҖВңBring in the prisoner.ГўВҖВқ

Rapid as had been VillefortГўВҖВҷs glance, it had served to give him an idea
of the man he was about to interrogate. He had recognized intelligence
in the high forehead, courage in the dark eye and bent brow, and
frankness in the thick lips that showed a set of pearly teeth.
VillefortГўВҖВҷs first impression was favorable; but he had been so often
warned to mistrust first impulses, that he applied the maxim to the
impression, forgetting the difference between the two words. He
stifled, therefore, the feelings of compassion that were rising,
composed his features, and sat down, grim and sombre, at his desk. An
instant after DantГғВЁs entered. He was pale, but calm and collected, and
saluting his judge with easy politeness, looked round for a seat, as if
he had been in M. MorrelГўВҖВҷs salon. It was then that he encountered for
the first time VillefortГўВҖВҷs look,ГўВҖВ”that look peculiar to the magistrate,
who, while seeming to read the thoughts of others, betrays nothing of
his own.

ГўВҖВңWho and what are you?ГўВҖВқ demanded Villefort, turning over a pile of
papers, containing information relative to the prisoner, that a police
agent had given to him on his entry, and that, already, in an hourГўВҖВҷs
time, had swelled to voluminous proportions, thanks to the corrupt
espionage of which ГўВҖВңthe accusedГўВҖВқ is always made the victim.

ГўВҖВңMy name is Edmond DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man calmly; ГўВҖВңI am mate of
the _Pharaon_, belonging to Messrs. Morrel & Son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour age?ГўВҖВқ continued Villefort.

ГўВҖВңNineteen,ГўВҖВқ returned DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWhat were you doing at the moment you were arrested?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was at the festival of my marriage, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said the young man,
his voice slightly tremulous, so great was the contrast between that
happy moment and the painful ceremony he was now undergoing; so great
was the contrast between the sombre aspect of M. de Villefort and the
radiant face of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңYou were at the festival of your marriage?ГўВҖВқ said the deputy,
shuddering in spite of himself.

ГўВҖВңYes, monsieur; I am on the point of marrying a young girl I have been
attached to for three years.ГўВҖВқ Villefort, impassive as he was, was
struck with this coincidence; and the tremulous voice of DantГғВЁs,
surprised in the midst of his happiness, struck a sympathetic chord in
his own bosomГўВҖВ”he also was on the point of being married, and he was
summoned from his own happiness to destroy that of another. ГўВҖВңThis
philosophic reflection,ГўВҖВқ thought he, ГўВҖВңwill make a great sensation at M.
de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs;ГўВҖВқ and he arranged mentally, while DantГғВЁs awaited
further questions, the antithesis by which orators often create a
reputation for eloquence. When this speech was arranged, Villefort
turned to DantГғВЁs.

0099m



ГўВҖВңGo on, sir,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңWhat would you have me say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGive all the information in your power.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me on which point you desire information, and I will tell all I
know; only,ГўВҖВқ added he, with a smile, ГўВҖВңI warn you I know very little.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you served under the usurper?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was about to be mustered into the Royal Marines when he fell.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is reported your political opinions are extreme,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort,
who had never heard anything of the kind, but was not sorry to make
this inquiry, as if it were an accusation.

ГўВҖВңMy political opinions!ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңAlas, sir, I never had any
opinions. I am hardly nineteen; I know nothing; I have no part to play.
If I obtain the situation I desire, I shall owe it to M. Morrel. Thus
all my opinionsГўВҖВ”I will not say public, but privateГўВҖВ”are confined to
these three sentiments,ГўВҖВ”I love my father, I respect M. Morrel, and I
adore MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. This, sir, is all I can tell you, and you see how
uninteresting it is.ГўВҖВқ As DantГғВЁs spoke, Villefort gazed at his ingenuous
and open countenance, and recollected the words of RenГғВ©e, who, without
knowing who the culprit was, had besought his indulgence for him. With
the deputyГўВҖВҷs knowledge of crime and criminals, every word the young man
uttered convinced him more and more of his innocence. This lad, for he
was scarcely a man,ГўВҖВ”simple, natural, eloquent with that eloquence of
the heart never found when sought for; full of affection for everybody,
because he was happy, and because happiness renders even the wicked
goodГўВҖВ”extended his affection even to his judge, spite of VillefortГўВҖВҷs
severe look and stern accent. DantГғВЁs seemed full of kindness.

_ГўВҖВңPardieu!ГўВҖВқ_ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңhe is a noble fellow. I hope I shall gain
RenГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs favor easily by obeying the first command she ever imposed on
me. I shall have at least a pressure of the hand in public, and a sweet
kiss in private.ГўВҖВқ Full of this idea, VillefortГўВҖВҷs face became so joyous,
that when he turned to DantГғВЁs, the latter, who had watched the change
on his physiognomy, was smiling also.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңhave you any enemies, at least, that you know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have enemies?ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңmy position is not sufficiently
elevated for that. As for my disposition, that is, perhaps, somewhat
too hasty; but I have striven to repress it. I have had ten or twelve
sailors under me, and if you question them, they will tell you that
they love and respect me, not as a father, for I am too young, but as
an elder brother.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you may have excited jealousy. You are about to become captain at
nineteenГўВҖВ”an elevated post; you are about to marry a pretty girl, who
loves you; and these two pieces of good fortune may have excited the
envy of someone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right; you know men better than I do, and what you say may
possibly be the case, I confess; but if such persons are among my
acquaintances I prefer not to know it, because then I should be forced
to hate them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are wrong; you should always strive to see clearly around you. You
seem a worthy young man; I will depart from the strict line of my duty
to aid you in discovering the author of this accusation. Here is the
paper; do you know the writing?ГўВҖВқ As he spoke, Villefort drew the letter
from his pocket, and presented it to DantГғВЁs. DantГғВЁs read it. A cloud
passed over his brow as he said:

ГўВҖВңNo, monsieur, I do not know the writing, and yet it is tolerably
plain. Whoever did it writes well. I am very fortunate,ГўВҖВқ added he,
looking gratefully at Villefort, ГўВҖВңto be examined by such a man as you;
for this envious person is a real enemy.ГўВҖВқ And by the rapid glance that
the young manГўВҖВҷs eyes shot forth, Villefort saw how much energy lay hid
beneath this mildness.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said the deputy, ГўВҖВңanswer me frankly, not as a prisoner to a
judge, but as one man to another who takes an interest in him, what
truth is there in the accusation contained in this anonymous letter?ГўВҖВқ
And Villefort threw disdainfully on his desk the letter DantГғВЁs had just
given back to him.

ГўВҖВңNone at all. I will tell you the real facts. I swear by my honor as a
sailor, by my love for MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, by the life of my fatherГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSpeak, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort. Then, internally, ГўВҖВңIf RenГғВ©e could
see me, I hope she would be satisfied, and would no longer call me a
decapitator.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, when we quitted Naples, Captain Leclere was attacked with a
brain fever. As we had no doctor on board, and he was so anxious to
arrive at Elba, that he would not touch at any other port, his disorder
rose to such a height, that at the end of the third day, feeling he was
dying, he called me to him. ГўВҖВҳMy dear DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳswear to
perform what I am going to tell you, for it is a matter of the deepest
importance.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI swear, captain,ГўВҖВҷ replied I.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell, as after my death the command devolves on you as mate, assume
the command, and bear up for the Island of Elba, disembark at
Porto-Ferrajo, ask for the grand-marshal, give him this letterГўВҖВ”perhaps
they will give you another letter, and charge you with a commission.
You will accomplish what I was to have done, and derive all the honor
and profit from it.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI will do it, captain; but perhaps I shall not be admitted to the
grand-marshalГўВҖВҷs presence as easily as you expect?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHere is a ring that will obtain audience of him, and remove every
difficulty,ГўВҖВҷ said the captain. At these words he gave me a ring. It was
timeГўВҖВ”two hours after he was delirious; the next day he died.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did you do then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat I ought to have done, and what everyone would have done in my
place. Everywhere the last requests of a dying man are sacred; but with
a sailor the last requests of his superior are commands. I sailed for
the Island of Elba, where I arrived the next day; I ordered everybody
to remain on board, and went on shore alone. As I had expected, I found
some difficulty in obtaining access to the grand-marshal; but I sent
the ring I had received from the captain to him, and was instantly
admitted. He questioned me concerning Captain LeclereГўВҖВҷs death; and, as
the latter had told me, gave me a letter to carry on to a person in
Paris. I undertook it because it was what my captain had bade me do. I
landed here, regulated the affairs of the vessel, and hastened to visit
my affianced bride, whom I found more lovely than ever. Thanks to M.
Morrel, all the forms were got over; in a word I was, as I told you, at
my marriage feast; and I should have been married in an hour, and
tomorrow I intended to start for Paris, had I not been arrested on this
charge which you as well as I now see to be unjust.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңthis seems to me the truth. If you have been
culpable, it was imprudence, and this imprudence was in obedience to
the orders of your captain. Give up this letter you have brought from
Elba, and pass your word you will appear should you be required, and go
and rejoin your friends.

ГўВҖВңI am free, then, sir?ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs joyfully.

ГўВҖВңYes; but first give me this letter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have it already, for it was taken from me with some others which I
see in that packet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStop a moment,ГўВҖВқ said the deputy, as DantГғВЁs took his hat and gloves.
ГўВҖВңTo whom is it addressed?ГўВҖВқ

_ГўВҖВңTo Monsieur Noirtier, Rue Coq-HГғВ©ron, Paris.ГўВҖВқ_ Had a thunderbolt
fallen into the room, Villefort could not have been more stupefied. He
sank into his seat, and hastily turning over the packet, drew forth the
fatal letter, at which he glanced with an expression of terror.

ГўВҖВңM. Noirtier, Rue Coq-HГғВ©ron, No. 13,ГўВҖВқ murmured he, growing still paler.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңdo you know him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort; ГўВҖВңa faithful servant of the king does not know
conspirators.ГўВҖВқ

0103m



ГўВҖВңIt is a conspiracy, then?ГўВҖВқ asked DantГғВЁs, who after believing himself
free, now began to feel a tenfold alarm. ГўВҖВңI have, however, already told
you, sir, I was entirely ignorant of the contents of the letter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but you knew the name of the person to whom it was addressed,ГўВҖВқ
said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңI was forced to read the address to know to whom to give it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you shown this letter to anyone?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort, becoming still
more pale.

ГўВҖВңTo no one, on my honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverybody is ignorant that you are the bearer of a letter from the
Island of Elba, and addressed to M. Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverybody, except the person who gave it to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd that was too much, far too much,ГўВҖВқ murmured Villefort. VillefortГўВҖВҷs
brow darkened more and more, his white lips and clenched teeth filled
DantГғВЁs with apprehension. After reading the letter, Villefort covered
his face with his hands.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs timidly, ГўВҖВңwhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ Villefort made no
answer, but raised his head at the expiration of a few seconds, and
again perused the letter.

ГўВҖВңAnd you say that you are ignorant of the contents of this letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI give you my word of honor, sir,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңbut what is the
matter? You are illГўВҖВ”shall I ring for assistance?ГўВҖВ”shall I call?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, rising hastily; ГўВҖВңstay where you are. It is for me
to give orders here, and not you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs proudly, ГўВҖВңit was only to summon assistance
for you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI want none; it was a temporary indisposition. Attend to yourself;
answer me.ГўВҖВқ DantГғВЁs waited, expecting a question, but in vain. Villefort
fell back on his chair, passed his hand over his brow, moist with
perspiration, and, for the third time, read the letter.

ГўВҖВңOh, if he knows the contents of this!ГўВҖВқ murmured he, ГўВҖВңand that Noirtier
is the father of Villefort, I am lost!ГўВҖВқ And he fixed his eyes upon
Edmond as if he would have penetrated his thoughts.

ГўВҖВңOh, it is impossible to doubt it,ГўВҖВқ cried he, suddenly.

ГўВҖВңIn heavenГўВҖВҷs name!ГўВҖВқ cried the unhappy young man, ГўВҖВңif you doubt me,
question me; I will answer you.ГўВҖВқ Villefort made a violent effort, and
in a tone he strove to render firm:

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI am no longer able, as I had hoped, to restore you
immediately to liberty; before doing so, I must consult the trial
justice; what my own feeling is you already know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңyou have been rather a friend than a
judge.ГўВҖВқ

0105m



ГўВҖВңWell, I must detain you some time longer, but I will strive to make it
as short as possible. The principal charge against you is this letter,
and you seeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ Villefort approached the fire, cast it in, and waited
until it was entirely consumed.

ГўВҖВңYou see, I destroy it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңyou are goodness itself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ continued Villefort; ГўВҖВңyou can now have confidence in me after
what I have done.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, command, and I will obey.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen; this is not a command, but advice I give you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSpeak, and I will follow your advice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall detain you until this evening in the Palais de Justice. Should
anyone else interrogate you, say to him what you have said to me, but
do not breathe a word of this letter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI promise.ГўВҖВқ It was Villefort who seemed to entreat, and the prisoner
who reassured him.

ГўВҖВңYou see,ГўВҖВқ continued he, glancing toward the grate, where fragments of
burnt paper fluttered in the flames, ГўВҖВңthe letter is destroyed; you and
I alone know of its existence; should you, therefore, be questioned,
deny all knowledge of itГўВҖВ”deny it boldly, and you are saved.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe satisfied; I will deny it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was the only letter you had?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSwear it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI swear it.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort rang. A police agent entered. Villefort whispered some words
in his ear, to which the officer replied by a motion of his head.

ГўВҖВңFollow him,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort to DantГғВЁs. DantГғВЁs saluted Villefort and
retired. Hardly had the door closed when Villefort threw himself
half-fainting into a chair.

ГўВҖВңAlas, alas,ГўВҖВқ murmured he, ГўВҖВңif the procureur himself had been at
Marseilles I should have been ruined. This accursed letter would have
destroyed all my hopes. Oh, my father, must your past career always
interfere with my successes?ГўВҖВқ Suddenly a light passed over his face, a
smile played round his set mouth, and his haggard eyes were fixed in
thought.

ГўВҖВңThis will do,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңand from this letter, which might have ruined
me, I will make my fortune. Now to the work I have in hand.ГўВҖВқ And after
having assured himself that the prisoner was gone, the deputy procureur
hastened to the house of his betrothed.

0107m




 Chapter 8. The ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf

The commissary of police, as he traversed the antechamber, made a sign
to two gendarmes, who placed themselves one on DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ right and the
other on his left. A door that communicated with the Palais de Justice
was opened, and they went through a long range of gloomy corridors,
whose appearance might have made even the boldest shudder. The Palais
de Justice communicated with the prison,ГўВҖВ”a sombre edifice, that from
its grated windows looks on the clock-tower of the Accoules. After
numberless windings, DantГғВЁs saw a door with an iron wicket. The
commissary took up an iron mallet and knocked thrice, every blow
seeming to DantГғВЁs as if struck on his heart. The door opened, the two
gendarmes gently pushed him forward, and the door closed with a loud
sound behind him. The air he inhaled was no longer pure, but thick and
mephitic,ГўВҖВ”he was in prison.

He was conducted to a tolerably neat chamber, but grated and barred,
and its appearance, therefore, did not greatly alarm him; besides, the
words of Villefort, who seemed to interest himself so much, resounded
still in his ears like a promise of freedom. It was four oГўВҖВҷclock when
DantГғВЁs was placed in this chamber. It was, as we have said, the 1st of
March, and the prisoner was soon buried in darkness. The obscurity
augmented the acuteness of his hearing; at the slightest sound he rose
and hastened to the door, convinced they were about to liberate him,
but the sound died away, and DantГғВЁs sank again into his seat. At last,
about ten oГўВҖВҷclock, and just as DantГғВЁs began to despair, steps were
heard in the corridor, a key turned in the lock, the bolts creaked, the
massy oaken door flew open, and a flood of light from two torches
pervaded the apartment.

By the torchlight DantГғВЁs saw the glittering sabres and carbines of four
gendarmes. He had advanced at first, but stopped at the sight of this
display of force.

ГўВҖВңAre you come to fetch me?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied a gendarme.

ГўВҖВңBy the orders of the deputy procureur?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe so.ГўВҖВқ The conviction that they came from M. de Villefort
relieved all DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ apprehensions; he advanced calmly, and placed
himself in the centre of the escort. A carriage waited at the door, the
coachman was on the box, and a police officer sat beside him.

ГўВҖВңIs this carriage for me?ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңIt is for you,ГўВҖВқ replied a gendarme.

DantГғВЁs was about to speak; but feeling himself urged forward, and
having neither the power nor the intention to resist, he mounted the
steps, and was in an instant seated inside between two gendarmes; the
two others took their places opposite, and the carriage rolled heavily
over the stones.

The prisoner glanced at the windowsГўВҖВ”they were grated; he had changed
his prison for another that was conveying him he knew not whither.
Through the grating, however, DantГғВЁs saw they were passing through the
Rue Caisserie, and by the Rue Saint-Laurent and the Rue Taramis, to the
quay. Soon he saw the lights of La Consigne.

The carriage stopped, the officer descended, approached the guardhouse,
a dozen soldiers came out and formed themselves in order; DantГғВЁs saw
the reflection of their muskets by the light of the lamps on the quay.

ГўВҖВңCan all this force be summoned on my account?ГўВҖВқ thought he.

The officer opened the door, which was locked, and, without speaking a
word, answered DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ question; for he saw between the ranks of the
soldiers a passage formed from the carriage to the port. The two
gendarmes who were opposite to him descended first, then he was ordered
to alight and the gendarmes on each side of him followed his example.
They advanced towards a boat, which a custom-house officer held by a
chain, near the quay.

The soldiers looked at DantГғВЁs with an air of stupid curiosity. In an
instant he was placed in the stern-sheets of the boat, between the
gendarmes, while the officer stationed himself at the bow; a shove sent
the boat adrift, and four sturdy oarsmen impelled it rapidly towards
the Pilon. At a shout from the boat, the chain that closes the mouth of
the port was lowered and in a second they were, as DantГғВЁs knew, in the
Frioul and outside the inner harbor.

The prisonerГўВҖВҷs first feeling was of joy at again breathing the pure
airГўВҖВ”for air is freedom; but he soon sighed, for he passed before La
RГғВ©serve, where he had that morning been so happy, and now through the
open windows came the laughter and revelry of a ball. DantГғВЁs folded his
hands, raised his eyes to heaven, and prayed fervently.

0111m



The boat continued her voyage. They had passed the TГғВӘte de Mort, were
now off the Anse du Pharo, and about to double the battery. This
manГ…В“uvre was incomprehensible to DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWhither are you taking me?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңYou will soon know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut stillГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are forbidden to give you any explanation.ГўВҖВқ DantГғВЁs, trained in
discipline, knew that nothing would be more absurd than to question
subordinates, who were forbidden to reply; and so he remained silent.

The most vague and wild thoughts passed through his mind. The boat they
were in could not make a long voyage; there was no vessel at anchor
outside the harbor; he thought, perhaps, they were going to leave him
on some distant point. He was not bound, nor had they made any attempt
to handcuff him; this seemed a good augury. Besides, had not the
deputy, who had been so kind to him, told him that provided he did not
pronounce the dreaded name of Noirtier, he had nothing to apprehend?
Had not Villefort in his presence destroyed the fatal letter, the only
proof against him?

He waited silently, striving to pierce through the darkness.

They had left the Ile Ratonneau, where the lighthouse stood, on the
right, and were now opposite the Point des Catalans. It seemed to the
prisoner that he could distinguish a feminine form on the beach, for it
was there MercГғВ©dГғВЁs dwelt. How was it that a presentiment did not warn
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs that her lover was within three hundred yards of her?

One light alone was visible; and DantГғВЁs saw that it came from MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ
chamber. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs was the only one awake in the whole settlement. A
loud cry could be heard by her. But pride restrained him and he did not
utter it. What would his guards think if they heard him shout like a
madman?

He remained silent, his eyes fixed upon the light; the boat went on,
but the prisoner thought only of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. An intervening elevation of
land hid the light. DantГғВЁs turned and perceived that they had got out
to sea. While he had been absorbed in thought, they had shipped their
oars and hoisted sail; the boat was now moving with the wind.

In spite of his repugnance to address the guards, DantГғВЁs turned to the
nearest gendarme, and taking his hand,

ГўВҖВңComrade,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI adjure you, as a Christian and a soldier, to
tell me where we are going. I am Captain DantГғВЁs, a loyal Frenchman,
thought accused of treason; tell me where you are conducting me, and I
promise you on my honor I will submit to my fate.ГўВҖВқ

The gendarme looked irresolutely at his companion, who returned for
answer a sign that said, ГўВҖВңI see no great harm in telling him now,ГўВҖВқ and
the gendarme replied:

ГўВҖВңYou are a native of Marseilles, and a sailor, and yet you do not know
where you are going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my honor, I have no idea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you no idea whatever?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNone at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI swear to you it is true. Tell me, I entreat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut my orders.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour orders do not forbid your telling me what I must know in ten
minutes, in half an hour, or an hour. You see I cannot escape, even if
I intended.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnless you are blind, or have never been outside the harbor, you must
know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLook round you then.ГўВҖВқ DantГғВЁs rose and looked forward, when he saw rise
within a hundred yards of him the black and frowning rock on which
stands the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf. This gloomy fortress, which has for more than
three hundred years furnished food for so many wild legends, seemed to
DantГғВЁs like a scaffold to a malefactor.

ГўВҖВңThe ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf?ГўВҖВқ cried he, ГўВҖВңwhat are we going there for?ГўВҖВқ

The gendarme smiled.

ГўВҖВңI am not going there to be imprisoned,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңit is only used
for political prisoners. I have committed no crime. Are there any
magistrates or judges at the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere are only,ГўВҖВқ said the gendarme, ГўВҖВңa governor, a garrison, turnkeys,
and good thick walls. Come, come, do not look so astonished, or you
will make me think you are laughing at me in return for my good
nature.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs pressed the gendarmeГўВҖВҷs hand as though he would crush it.

ГўВҖВңYou think, then,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthat I am taken to the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf to be
imprisoned there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is probable; but there is no occasion to squeeze so hard.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWithout any inquiry, without any formality?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll the formalities have been gone through; the inquiry is already
made.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd so, in spite of M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs promises?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know what M. de Villefort promised you,ГўВҖВқ said the gendarme,
ГўВҖВңbut I know we are taking you to the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf. But what are you
doing? Help, comrades, help!ГўВҖВқ

By a rapid movement, which the gendarmeГўВҖВҷs practiced eye had perceived,
DantГғВЁs sprang forward to precipitate himself into the sea; but four
vigorous arms seized him as his feet quitted the bottom of the boat. He
fell back cursing with rage.

ГўВҖВңGood!ГўВҖВқ said the gendarme, placing his knee on his chest; ГўВҖВңthis is the
way you keep your word as a sailor! Believe soft-spoken gentlemen
again! Hark ye, my friend, I have disobeyed my first order, but I will
not disobey the second; and if you move, I will blow your brains out.ГўВҖВқ
And he levelled his carbine at DantГғВЁs, who felt the muzzle against his
temple.

For a moment the idea of struggling crossed his mind, and of so ending
the unexpected evil that had overtaken him. But he bethought him of M.
de VillefortГўВҖВҷs promise; and, besides, death in a boat from the hand of
a gendarme seemed too terrible. He remained motionless, but gnashing
his teeth and wringing his hands with fury.

At this moment the boat came to a landing with a violent shock. One of
the sailors leaped on shore, a cord creaked as it ran through a pulley,
and DantГғВЁs guessed they were at the end of the voyage, and that they
were mooring the boat.

His guards, taking him by the arms and coat-collar, forced him to rise,
and dragged him towards the steps that lead to the gate of the
fortress, while the police officer carrying a musket with fixed bayonet
followed behind.

DantГғВЁs made no resistance; he was like a man in a dream; he saw
soldiers drawn up on the embankment; he knew vaguely that he was
ascending a flight of steps; he was conscious that he passed through a
door, and that the door closed behind him; but all this indistinctly as
through a mist. He did not even see the ocean, that terrible barrier
against freedom, which the prisoners look upon with utter despair.

They halted for a minute, during which he strove to collect his
thoughts. He looked around; he was in a court surrounded by high walls;
he heard the measured tread of sentinels, and as they passed before the
light he saw the barrels of their muskets shine.

They waited upwards of ten minutes. Certain DantГғВЁs could not escape,
the gendarmes released him. They seemed awaiting orders. The orders
came.

ГўВҖВңWhere is the prisoner?ГўВҖВқ said a voice.

ГўВҖВңHere,ГўВҖВқ replied the gendarmes.

ГўВҖВңLet him follow me; I will take him to his cell.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo!ГўВҖВқ said the gendarmes, thrusting DantГғВЁs forward.

The prisoner followed his guide, who led him into a room almost under
ground, whose bare and reeking walls seemed as though impregnated with
tears; a lamp placed on a stool illumined the apartment faintly, and
showed DantГғВЁs the features of his conductor, an under-jailer,
ill-clothed, and of sullen appearance.

0113m



ГўВҖВңHere is your chamber for tonight,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңIt is late, and the
governor is asleep. Tomorrow, perhaps, he may change you. In the
meantime there is bread, water, and fresh straw; and that is all a
prisoner can wish for. Goodnight.ГўВҖВқ And before DantГғВЁs could open his
mouthГўВҖВ”before he had noticed where the jailer placed his bread or the
waterГўВҖВ”before he had glanced towards the corner where the straw was, the
jailer disappeared, taking with him the lamp and closing the door,
leaving stamped upon the prisonerГўВҖВҷs mind the dim reflection of the
dripping walls of his dungeon.

DantГғВЁs was alone in darkness and in silenceГўВҖВ”cold as the shadows that he
felt breathe on his burning forehead. With the first dawn of day the
jailer returned, with orders to leave DantГғВЁs where he was. He found the
prisoner in the same position, as if fixed there, his eyes swollen with
weeping. He had passed the night standing, and without sleep. The
jailer advanced; DantГғВЁs appeared not to perceive him. He touched him on
the shoulder. Edmond started.

ГўВҖВңHave you not slept?ГўВҖВқ said the jailer.

ГўВҖВңI do not know,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs. The jailer stared.

ГўВҖВңAre you hungry?ГўВҖВқ continued he.

ГўВҖВңI do not know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you wish for anything?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI wish to see the governor.ГўВҖВқ

The jailer shrugged his shoulders and left the chamber.

DantГғВЁs followed him with his eyes, and stretched forth his hands
towards the open door; but the door closed. All his emotion then burst
forth; he cast himself on the ground, weeping bitterly, and asking
himself what crime he had committed that he was thus punished.

The day passed thus; he scarcely tasted food, but walked round and
round the cell like a wild beast in its cage. One thought in particular
tormented him: namely, that during his journey hither he had sat so
still, whereas he might, a dozen times, have plunged into the sea, and,
thanks to his powers of swimming, for which he was famous, have gained
the shore, concealed himself until the arrival of a Genoese or Spanish
vessel, escaped to Spain or Italy, where MercГғВ©dГғВЁs and his father could
have joined him. He had no fears as to how he should liveГўВҖВ”good seamen
are welcome everywhere. He spoke Italian like a Tuscan, and Spanish
like a Castilian; he would have been free, and happy with MercГғВ©dГғВЁs and
his father, whereas he was now confined in the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, that
impregnable fortress, ignorant of the future destiny of his father and
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; and all this because he had trusted to VillefortГўВҖВҷs promise.
The thought was maddening, and DantГғВЁs threw himself furiously down on
his straw. The next morning at the same hour, the jailer came again.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the jailer, ГўВҖВңare you more reasonable today?ГўВҖВқ DantГғВЁs made
no reply.

ГўВҖВңCome, cheer up; is there anything that I can do for you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI wish to see the governor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have already told you it was impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause it is against prison rules, and prisoners must not even ask
for it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is allowed, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBetter fare, if you pay for it, books, and leave to walk about.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not want books, I am satisfied with my food, and do not care to
walk about; but I wish to see the governor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you worry me by repeating the same thing, I will not bring you any
more to eat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ said Edmond, ГўВҖВңif you do not, I shall die of hungerГўВҖВ”that
is all.ГўВҖВқ

The jailer saw by his tone he would be happy to die; and as every
prisoner is worth ten sous a day to his jailer, he replied in a more
subdued tone.

ГўВҖВңWhat you ask is impossible; but if you are very well behaved you will
be allowed to walk about, and some day you will meet the governor, and
if he chooses to reply, that is his affair.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ asked DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңhow long shall I have to wait?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, a monthГўВҖВ”six monthsГўВҖВ”a year.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is too long a time. I wish to see him at once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the jailer, ГўВҖВңdo not always brood over what is impossible, or
you will be mad in a fortnight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou think so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; we have an instance here; it was by always offering a million of
francs to the governor for his liberty that an abbГғВ© became mad, who was
in this chamber before you.ГўВҖВқ

0119m



ГўВҖВңHow long has he left it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas he liberated, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; he was put in a dungeon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen!ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңI am not an abbГғВ©, I am not mad; perhaps I shall
be, but at present, unfortunately, I am not. I will make you another
offer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not offer you a million, because I have it not; but I will give
you a hundred crowns if, the first time you go to Marseilles, you will
seek out a young girl named MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, at the Catalans, and give her two
lines from me.ГўВҖВқ

0120m



ГўВҖВңIf I took them, and were detected, I should lose my place, which is
worth two thousand francs a year; so that I should be a great fool to
run such a risk for three hundred.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңmark this; if you refuse at least to tell
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs I am here, I will some day hide myself behind the door, and
when you enter I will dash out your brains with this stool.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThreats!ГўВҖВқ cried the jailer, retreating and putting himself on the
defensive; ГўВҖВңyou are certainly going mad. The abbГғВ© began like you, and
in three days you will be like him, mad enough to tie up; but,
fortunately, there are dungeons here.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs whirled the stool round his head.

ГўВҖВңAll right, all right,ГўВҖВқ said the jailer; ГўВҖВңall right, since you will
have it so. I will send word to the governor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well,ГўВҖВқ returned DantГғВЁs, dropping the stool and sitting on it as
if he were in reality mad. The jailer went out, and returned in an
instant with a corporal and four soldiers.

ГўВҖВңBy the governorГўВҖВҷs orders,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңconduct the prisoner to the tier
beneath.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the dungeon, then,ГўВҖВқ said the corporal.

ГўВҖВңYes; we must put the madman with the madmen.ГўВҖВқ The soldiers seized
DantГғВЁs, who followed passively.

He descended fifteen steps, and the door of a dungeon was opened, and
he was thrust in. The door closed, and DantГғВЁs advanced with
outstretched hands until he touched the wall; he then sat down in the
corner until his eyes became accustomed to the darkness. The jailer was
right; DantГғВЁs wanted but little of being utterly mad.



 Chapter 9. The Evening of the Betrothal

Villefort had, as we have said, hastened back to Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs in the Place du Grand Cours, and on entering the house
found that the guests whom he had left at table were taking coffee in
the salon. RenГғВ©e was, with all the rest of the company, anxiously
awaiting him, and his entrance was followed by a general exclamation.

ГўВҖВңWell, Decapitator, Guardian of the State, Royalist, Brutus, what is
the matter?ГўВҖВқ said one. ГўВҖВңSpeak out.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre we threatened with a fresh Reign of Terror?ГўВҖВқ asked another.

ГўВҖВңHas the Corsican ogre broken loose?ГўВҖВқ cried a third.

ГўВҖВңMarquise,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, approaching his future mother-in-law, ГўВҖВңI
request your pardon for thus leaving you. Will the marquis honor me by
a few momentsГўВҖВҷ private conversation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, it is really a serious matter, then?ГўВҖВқ asked the marquis, remarking
the cloud on VillefortГўВҖВҷs brow.

ГўВҖВңSo serious that I must take leave of you for a few days; so,ГўВҖВқ added
he, turning to RenГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңjudge for yourself if it be not important.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are going to leave us?ГўВҖВқ cried RenГғВ©e, unable to hide her emotion at
this unexpected announcement.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ returned Villefort, ГўВҖВңI must!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere, then, are you going?ГўВҖВқ asked the marquise.

ГўВҖВңThat, madame, is an official secret; but if you have any commissions
for Paris, a friend of mine is going there tonight, and will with
pleasure undertake them.ГўВҖВқ The guests looked at each other.

ГўВҖВңYou wish to speak to me alone?ГўВҖВқ said the marquis.

ГўВҖВңYes, let us go to the library, please.ГўВҖВқ The marquis took his arm, and
they left the salon.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ asked he, as soon as they were by themselves, ГўВҖВңtell me what it
is?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn affair of the greatest importance, that demands my immediate
presence in Paris. Now, excuse the indiscretion, marquis, but have you
any landed property?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll my fortune is in the funds; seven or eight hundred thousand
francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen sell outГўВҖВ”sell out, marquis, or you will lose it all.ГўВҖВқ

0123m



ГўВҖВңBut how can I sell out here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have a broker, have you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen give me a letter to him, and tell him to sell out without an
instantГўВҖВҷs delay, perhaps even now I shall arrive too late.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe deuce you say!ГўВҖВқ replied the marquis, ГўВҖВңlet us lose no time, then!ГўВҖВқ

And, sitting down, he wrote a letter to his broker, ordering him to
sell out at the market price.

ГўВҖВңNow, then,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, placing the letter in his pocketbook, ГўВҖВңI
must have another!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the king.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the king?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI dare not write to his majesty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not ask you to write to his majesty, but ask M. de Salvieux to do
so. I want a letter that will enable me to reach the kingГўВҖВҷs presence
without all the formalities of demanding an audience; that would
occasion a loss of precious time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut address yourself to the keeper of the seals; he has the right of
entry at the Tuileries, and can procure you audience at any hour of the
day or night.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless; but there is no occasion to divide the honors of my
discovery with him. The keeper would leave me in the background, and
take all the glory to himself. I tell you, marquis, my fortune is made
if I only reach the Tuileries the first, for the king will not forget
the service I do him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn that case go and get ready. I will call Salvieux and make him write
the letter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe as quick as possible, I must be on the road in a quarter of an
hour.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell your coachman to stop at the door.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will present my excuses to the marquise and Mademoiselle RenГғВ©e,
whom I leave on such a day with great regret.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will find them both here, and can make your farewells in person.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA thousand thanksГўВҖВ”and now for the letter.ГўВҖВқ

The marquis rang, a servant entered.

ГўВҖВңSay to the Comte de Salvieux that I would like to see him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, then, go,ГўВҖВқ said the marquis.

ГўВҖВңI shall be gone only a few moments.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort hastily quitted the apartment, but reflecting that the sight
of the deputy procureur running through the streets would be enough to
throw the whole city into confusion, he resumed his ordinary pace. At
his door he perceived a figure in the shadow that seemed to wait for
him. It was MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, who, hearing no news of her lover, had come
unobserved to inquire after him.

As Villefort drew near, she advanced and stood before him. DantГғВЁs had
spoken of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, and Villefort instantly recognized her. Her beauty
and high bearing surprised him, and when she inquired what had become
of her lover, it seemed to him that she was the judge, and he the
accused.

ГўВҖВңThe young man you speak of,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort abruptly, ГўВҖВңis a great
criminal, and I can do nothing for him, mademoiselle.ГўВҖВқ MercГғВ©dГғВЁs burst
into tears, and, as Villefort strove to pass her, again addressed him.

ГўВҖВңBut, at least, tell me where he is, that I may know whether he is
alive or dead,ГўВҖВқ said she.

0125m



ГўВҖВңI do not know; he is no longer in my hands,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort.

And desirous of putting an end to the interview, he pushed by her, and
closed the door, as if to exclude the pain he felt. But remorse is not
thus banished; like VirgilГўВҖВҷs wounded hero, he carried the arrow in his
wound, and, arrived at the salon, Villefort uttered a sigh that was
almost a sob, and sank into a chair.

Then the first pangs of an unending torture seized upon his heart. The
man he sacrificed to his ambition, that innocent victim immolated on
the altar of his fatherГўВҖВҷs faults, appeared to him pale and threatening,
leading his affianced bride by the hand, and bringing with him remorse,
not such as the ancients figured, furious and terrible, but that slow
and consuming agony whose pangs are intensified from hour to hour up to
the very moment of death. Then he had a momentГўВҖВҷs hesitation. He had
frequently called for capital punishment on criminals, and owing to his
irresistible eloquence they had been condemned, and yet the slightest
shadow of remorse had never clouded VillefortГўВҖВҷs brow, because they were
guilty; at least, he believed so; but here was an innocent man whose
happiness he had destroyed. In this case he was not the judge, but the
executioner.

As he thus reflected, he felt the sensation we have described, and
which had hitherto been unknown to him, arise in his bosom, and fill
him with vague apprehensions. It is thus that a wounded man trembles
instinctively at the approach of the finger to his wound until it be
healed, but VillefortГўВҖВҷs was one of those that never close, or if they
do, only close to reopen more agonizing than ever. If at this moment
the sweet voice of RenГғВ©e had sounded in his ears pleading for mercy, or
the fair MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had entered and said, ГўВҖВңIn the name of God, I conjure
you to restore me my affianced husband,ГўВҖВқ his cold and trembling hands
would have signed his release; but no voice broke the stillness of the
chamber, and the door was opened only by VillefortГўВҖВҷs valet, who came to
tell him that the travelling carriage was in readiness.

Villefort rose, or rather sprang, from his chair, hastily opened one of
the drawers of his desk, emptied all the gold it contained into his
pocket, stood motionless an instant, his hand pressed to his head,
muttered a few inarticulate sounds, and then, perceiving that his
servant had placed his cloak on his shoulders, he sprang into the
carriage, ordering the postilions to drive to M. de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs. The
hapless DantГғВЁs was doomed.

As the marquis had promised, Villefort found the marquise and RenГғВ©e in
waiting. He started when he saw RenГғВ©e, for he fancied she was again
about to plead for DantГғВЁs. Alas, her emotions were wholly personal: she
was thinking only of VillefortГўВҖВҷs departure.

She loved Villefort, and he left her at the moment he was about to
become her husband. Villefort knew not when he should return, and
RenГғВ©e, far from pleading for DantГғВЁs, hated the man whose crime
separated her from her lover.

0127m



Meanwhile what of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs? She had met Fernand at the corner of the
Rue de la Loge; she had returned to the Catalans, and had despairingly
cast herself on her couch. Fernand, kneeling by her side, took her
hand, and covered it with kisses that MercГғВ©dГғВЁs did not even feel. She
passed the night thus. The lamp went out for want of oil, but she paid
no heed to the darkness, and dawn came, but she knew not that it was
day. Grief had made her blind to all but one objectГўВҖВ”that was Edmond.

ГўВҖВңAh, you are there,ГўВҖВқ said she, at length, turning towards Fernand.

ГўВҖВңI have not quitted you since yesterday,ГўВҖВқ returned Fernand sorrowfully.

M. Morrel had not readily given up the fight. He had learned that
DantГғВЁs had been taken to prison, and he had gone to all his friends,
and the influential persons of the city; but the report was already in
circulation that DantГғВЁs was arrested as a Bonapartist agent; and as the
most sanguine looked upon any attempt of Napoleon to remount the throne
as impossible, he met with nothing but refusal, and had returned home
in despair, declaring that the matter was serious and that nothing more
could be done.

Caderousse was equally restless and uneasy, but instead of seeking,
like M. Morrel, to aid DantГғВЁs, he had shut himself up with two bottles
of black currant brandy, in the hope of drowning reflection. But he did
not succeed, and became too intoxicated to fetch any more drink, and
yet not so intoxicated as to forget what had happened. With his elbows
on the table he sat between the two empty bottles, while spectres
danced in the light of the unsnuffed candleГўВҖВ”spectres such as Hoffmann
strews over his punch-drenched pages, like black, fantastic dust.

Danglars alone was content and joyousГўВҖВ”he had got rid of an enemy and
made his own situation on the _Pharaon_ secure. Danglars was one of
those men born with a pen behind the ear, and an inkstand in place of a
heart. Everything with him was multiplication or subtraction. The life
of a man was to him of far less value than a numeral, especially when,
by taking it away, he could increase the sum total of his own desires.
He went to bed at his usual hour, and slept in peace.

Villefort, after having received M. de SalvieuxГўВҖВҷs letter, embraced
RenГғВ©e, kissed the marquiseГўВҖВҷs hand, and shaken that of the marquis,
started for Paris along the Aix road.

Old DantГғВЁs was dying with anxiety to know what had become of Edmond.
But we know very well what had become of Edmond.



 Chapter 10. The KingГўВҖВҷs Closet at the Tuileries

We will leave Villefort on the road to Paris, travellingГўВҖВ”thanks to
trebled feesГўВҖВ”with all speed, and passing through two or three
apartments, enter at the Tuileries the little room with the arched
window, so well known as having been the favorite closet of Napoleon
and Louis XVIII., and now of Louis Philippe.

There, seated before a walnut table he had brought with him from
Hartwell, and to which, from one of those fancies not uncommon to great
people, he was particularly attached, the king, Louis XVIII., was
carelessly listening to a man of fifty or fifty-two years of age, with
gray hair, aristocratic bearing, and exceedingly gentlemanly attire,
and meanwhile making a marginal note in a volume of GryphiusГўВҖВҷs rather
inaccurate, but much sought-after, edition of HoraceГўВҖВ”a work which was
much indebted to the sagacious observations of the philosophical
monarch.

ГўВҖВңYou say, sirГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ said the king.

ГўВҖВңThat I am exceedingly disquieted, sire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, have you had a vision of the seven fat kine and the seven lean
kine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sire, for that would only betoken for us seven years of plenty and
seven years of scarcity; and with a king as full of foresight as your
majesty, scarcity is not a thing to be feared.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen of what other scourge are you afraid, my dear Blacas?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, I have every reason to believe that a storm is brewing in the
south.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, my dear duke,ГўВҖВқ replied Louis XVIII., ГўВҖВңI think you are wrongly
informed, and know positively that, on the contrary, it is very fine
weather in that direction.ГўВҖВқ Man of ability as he was, Louis XVIII.
liked a pleasant jest.

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ continued M. de Blacas, ГўВҖВңif it only be to reassure a faithful
servant, will your majesty send into Languedoc, Provence, and DauphinГғВ©,
trusty men, who will bring you back a faithful report as to the feeling
in these three provinces?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Canimus surdis_,ГўВҖВқ replied the king, continuing the annotations in his
Horace.

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ replied the courtier, laughing, in order that he might seem to
comprehend the quotation, ГўВҖВңyour majesty may be perfectly right in
relying on the good feeling of France, but I fear I am not altogether
wrong in dreading some desperate attempt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy Bonaparte, or, at least, by his adherents.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear Blacas,ГўВҖВқ said the king, ГўВҖВңyou with your alarms prevent me from
working.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you, sire, prevent me from sleeping with your security.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait, my dear sir, wait a moment; for I have such a delightful note on
the _Pastor quum traheret_ГўВҖВ”wait, and I will listen to you afterwards.ГўВҖВқ

There was a brief pause, during which Louis XVIII. wrote, in a hand as
small as possible, another note on the margin of his Horace, and then
looking at the duke with the air of a man who thinks he has an idea of
his own, while he is only commenting upon the idea of another, said:

ГўВҖВңGo on, my dear duke, go onГўВҖВ”I listen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ said Blacas, who had for a moment the hope of sacrificing
Villefort to his own profit, ГўВҖВңI am compelled to tell you that these are
not mere rumors destitute of foundation which thus disquiet me; but a
serious-minded man, deserving all my confidence, and charged by me to
watch over the southГўВҖВқ (the duke hesitated as he pronounced these
words), ГўВҖВңhas arrived by post to tell me that a great peril threatens
the king, and so I hastened to you, sire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Mala ducis avi domum_,ГўВҖВқ continued Louis XVIII., still annotating.

ГўВҖВңDoes your majesty wish me to drop the subject?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy no means, my dear duke; but just stretch out your hand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhichever you pleaseГўВҖВ”there to the left.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere, sire?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI tell you to the left, and you are looking to the right; I mean on my
leftГўВҖВ”yes, there. You will find yesterdayГўВҖВҷs report of the minister of
police. But here is M. DandrГғВ© himself;ГўВҖВқ and M. DandrГғВ©, announced by the
chamberlain-in-waiting, entered.

ГўВҖВңCome in,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., with repressed smile, ГўВҖВңcome in, Baron,
and tell the duke all you knowГўВҖВ”the latest news of M. de Bonaparte; do
not conceal anything, however serious,ГўВҖВ”let us see, the Island of Elba
is a volcano, and we may expect to have issuing thence flaming and
bristling warГўВҖВ”_bella, horrida bella_.ГўВҖВқ

M. DandrГғВ© leaned very respectfully on the back of a chair with his two
hands, and said:

ГўВҖВңHas your majesty perused yesterdayГўВҖВҷs report?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes; but tell the duke himself, who cannot find anything, what
the report containsГўВҖВ”give him the particulars of what the usurper is
doing in his islet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ said the baron to the duke, ГўВҖВңall the servants of his
majesty must approve of the latest intelligence which we have from the
Island of Elba. BonaparteГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

M. DandrГғВ© looked at Louis XVIII., who, employed in writing a note, did
not even raise his head. ГўВҖВңBonaparte,ГўВҖВқ continued the baron, ГўВҖВңis mortally
wearied, and passes whole days in watching his miners at work at
Porto-Longone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd scratches himself for amusement,ГўВҖВқ added the king.

ГўВҖВңScratches himself?ГўВҖВқ inquired the duke, ГўВҖВңwhat does your majesty mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed, my dear duke. Did you forget that this great man, this
hero, this demigod, is attacked with a malady of the skin which worries
him to death, _prurigo_?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd, moreover, my dear duke,ГўВҖВқ continued the minister of police, ГўВҖВңwe
are almost assured that, in a very short time, the usurper will be
insane.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңInsane?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRaving mad; his head becomes weaker. Sometimes he weeps bitterly,
sometimes laughs boisterously, at other time he passes hours on the
seashore, flinging stones in the water and when the flint makes
ГўВҖВҳduck-and-drakeГўВҖВҷ five or six times, he appears as delighted as if he
had gained another Marengo or Austerlitz. Now, you must agree that
these are indubitable symptoms of insanity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOr of wisdom, my dear baronГўВҖВ”or of wisdom,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII.,
laughing; ГўВҖВңthe greatest captains of antiquity amused themselves by
casting pebbles into the oceanГўВҖВ”see PlutarchГўВҖВҷs life of Scipio
Africanus.ГўВҖВқ

M. de Blacas pondered deeply between the confident monarch and the
truthful minister. Villefort, who did not choose to reveal the whole
secret, lest another should reap all the benefit of the disclosure, had
yet communicated enough to cause him the greatest uneasiness.

ГўВҖВңWell, well, DandrГғВ©,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., ГўВҖВңBlacas is not yet convinced;
let us proceed, therefore, to the usurperГўВҖВҷs conversion.ГўВҖВқ The minister
of police bowed.

ГўВҖВңThe usurperГўВҖВҷs conversion!ГўВҖВқ murmured the duke, looking at the king and
DandrГғВ©, who spoke alternately, like VirgilГўВҖВҷs shepherds. ГўВҖВңThe usurper
converted!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDecidedly, my dear duke.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what way converted?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo good principles. Tell him all about it, baron.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, this is the way of it,ГўВҖВқ said the minister, with the gravest air
in the world: ГўВҖВңNapoleon lately had a review, and as two or three of his
old veterans expressed a desire to return to France, he gave them their
dismissal, and exhorted them to ГўВҖВҳserve the good king.ГўВҖВҷ These were his
own words, of that I am certain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, Blacas, what think you of this?ГўВҖВқ inquired the king triumphantly,
and pausing for a moment from the voluminous scholiast before him.

ГўВҖВңI say, sire, that the minister of police is greatly deceived or I am;
and as it is impossible it can be the minister of police as he has the
guardianship of the safety and honor of your majesty, it is probable
that I am in error. However, sire, if I might advise, your majesty will
interrogate the person of whom I spoke to you, and I will urge your
majesty to do him this honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMost willingly, duke; under your auspices I will receive any person
you please, but you must not expect me to be too confiding. Baron, have
you any report more recent than this, dated the 20th February, and this
is the 3rd of March?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sire, but I am hourly expecting one; it may have arrived since I
left my office.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo thither, and if there be noneГўВҖВ”well, well,ГўВҖВқ continued Louis XVIII.,
ГўВҖВңmake one; that is the usual way, is it not?ГўВҖВқ and the king laughed
facetiously.

ГўВҖВңOh, sire,ГўВҖВқ replied the minister, ГўВҖВңwe have no occasion to invent any;
every day our desks are loaded with most circumstantial denunciations,
coming from hosts of people who hope for some return for services which
they seek to render, but cannot; they trust to fortune, and rely upon
some unexpected event in some way to justify their predictions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir, go,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., ГўВҖВңand remember that I am waiting for
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will but go and return, sire; I shall be back in ten minutes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I, sire,ГўВҖВқ said M. de Blacas, ГўВҖВңwill go and find my messenger.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait, sir, wait,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII. ГўВҖВңReally, M. de Blacas, I must
change your armorial bearings; I will give you an eagle with
outstretched wings, holding in its claws a prey which tries in vain to
escape, and bearing this deviceГўВҖВ”_Tenax_.ГўВҖВқ

0133m



ГўВҖВңSire, I listen,ГўВҖВқ said De Blacas, biting his nails with impatience.

ГўВҖВңI wish to consult you on this passage, ГўВҖВҳ_Molli fugiens anhelitu_,ГўВҖВҷ you
know it refers to a stag flying from a wolf. Are you not a sportsman
and a great wolf-hunter? Well, then, what do you think of the _molli
anhelitu_?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAdmirable, sire; but my messenger is like the stag you refer to, for
he has posted two hundred and twenty leagues in scarcely three days.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich is undergoing great fatigue and anxiety, my dear duke, when we
have a telegraph which transmits messages in three or four hours, and
that without getting in the least out of breath.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, sire, you recompense but badly this poor young man, who has come
so far, and with so much ardor, to give your majesty useful
information. If only for the sake of M. de Salvieux, who recommends him
to me, I entreat your majesty to receive him graciously.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Salvieux, my brotherГўВҖВҷs chamberlain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is at Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd writes me thence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes he speak to you of this conspiracy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; but strongly recommends M. de Villefort, and begs me to present
him to your majesty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Villefort!ГўВҖВқ cried the king, ГўВҖВңis the messengerГўВҖВҷs name M. de
Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd he comes from Marseilles?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn person.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy did you not mention his name at once?ГўВҖВқ replied the king, betraying
some uneasiness.

ГўВҖВңSire, I thought his name was unknown to your majesty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, Blacas; he is a man of strong and elevated understanding,
ambitious, too, and, _pardieu!_ you know his fatherГўВҖВҷs name!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, Noirtier.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNoirtier the Girondin?ГўВҖВ”Noirtier the senator?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd your majesty has employed the son of such a man?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBlacas, my friend, you have but limited comprehension. I told you
Villefort was ambitious, and to attain this ambition Villefort would
sacrifice everything, even his father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, sire, may I present him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis instant, duke! Where is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWaiting below, in my carriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSeek him at once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hasten to do so.ГўВҖВқ

The duke left the royal presence with the speed of a young man; his
really sincere royalism made him youthful again. Louis XVIII. remained
alone, and turning his eyes on his half-opened Horace, muttered:

ГўВҖВң_Justum et tenacem propositi virum_.ГўВҖВқ

M. de Blacas returned as speedily as he had departed, but in the
antechamber he was forced to appeal to the kingГўВҖВҷs authority.
VillefortГўВҖВҷs dusty garb, his costume, which was not of courtly cut,
excited the susceptibility of M. de BrezГғВ©, who was all astonishment at
finding that this young man had the audacity to enter before the king
in such attire. The duke, however, overcame all difficulties with a
wordГўВҖВ”his majestyГўВҖВҷs order; and, in spite of the protestations which the
master of ceremonies made for the honor of his office and principles,
Villefort was introduced.

The king was seated in the same place where the duke had left him. On
opening the door, Villefort found himself facing him, and the young
magistrateГўВҖВҷs first impulse was to pause.

ГўВҖВңCome in, M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ said the king, ГўВҖВңcome in.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort bowed, and advancing a few steps, waited until the king
should interrogate him.

ГўВҖВңM. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., ГўВҖВңthe Duc de Blacas assures me you
have some interesting information to communicate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, the duke is right, and I believe your majesty will think it
equally important.ГўВҖВқ

0137m



ГўВҖВңIn the first place, and before everything else, sir, is the news as
bad in your opinion as I am asked to believe?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, I believe it to be most urgent, but I hope, by the speed I have
used, that it is not irreparable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSpeak as fully as you please, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the king, who began to give
way to the emotion which had showed itself in BlacasГўВҖВҷs face and
affected VillefortГўВҖВҷs voice. ГўВҖВңSpeak, sir, and pray begin at the
beginning; I like order in everything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңI will render a faithful report to your
majesty, but I must entreat your forgiveness if my anxiety leads to
some obscurity in my language.ГўВҖВқ A glance at the king after this
discreet and subtle exordium, assured Villefort of the benignity of his
august auditor, and he went on:

ГўВҖВңSire, I have come as rapidly to Paris as possible, to inform your
majesty that I have discovered, in the exercise of my duties, not a
commonplace and insignificant plot, such as is every day got up in the
lower ranks of the people and in the army, but an actual conspiracyГўВҖВ”a
storm which menaces no less than your majestyГўВҖВҷs throne. Sire, the
usurper is arming three ships, he meditates some project, which,
however mad, is yet, perhaps, terrible. At this moment he will have
left Elba, to go whither I know not, but assuredly to attempt a landing
either at Naples, or on the coast of Tuscany, or perhaps on the shores
of France. Your majesty is well aware that the sovereign of the Island
of Elba has maintained his relations with Italy and France?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the king, much agitated; ГўВҖВңand recently we have had
information that the Bonapartist clubs have had meetings in the Rue
Saint-Jacques. But proceed, I beg of you. How did you obtain these
details?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, they are the results of an examination which I have made of a
man of Marseilles, whom I have watched for some time, and arrested on
the day of my departure. This person, a sailor, of turbulent character,
and whom I suspected of Bonapartism, has been secretly to the Island of
Elba. There he saw the grand-marshal, who charged him with an oral
message to a Bonapartist in Paris, whose name I could not extract from
him; but this mission was to prepare menГўВҖВҷs minds for a return (it is
the man who says this, sire)ГўВҖВ”a return which will soon occur.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where is this man?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn prison, sire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the matter seems serious to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo serious, sire, that when the circumstance surprised me in the midst
of a family festival, on the very day of my betrothal, I left my bride
and friends, postponing everything, that I might hasten to lay at your
majestyГўВҖВҷs feet the fears which impressed me, and the assurance of my
devotion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., ГўВҖВңwas there not a marriage engagement between
you and Mademoiselle de Saint-MГғВ©ran?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDaughter of one of your majestyГўВҖВҷs most faithful servants.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes; but let us talk of this plot, M. de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, I fear it is more than a plot; I fear it is a conspiracy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA conspiracy in these times,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., smiling, ГўВҖВңis a thing
very easy to meditate, but more difficult to conduct to an end,
inasmuch as, re-established so recently on the throne of our ancestors,
we have our eyes open at once upon the past, the present, and the
future. For the last ten months my ministers have redoubled their
vigilance, in order to watch the shore of the Mediterranean. If
Bonaparte landed at Naples, the whole coalition would be on foot before
he could even reach Piombino; if he land in Tuscany, he will be in an
unfriendly territory; if he land in France, it must be with a handful
of men, and the result of that is easily foretold, execrated as he is
by the population. Take courage, sir; but at the same time rely on our
royal gratitude.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, here is M. DandrГғВ©!ГўВҖВқ cried de Blacas. At this instant the minister
of police appeared at the door, pale, trembling, and as if ready to
faint. Villefort was about to retire, but M. de Blacas, taking his
hand, restrained him.



 Chapter 11. The Corsican Ogre

At the sight of this agitation Louis XVIII. pushed from him violently
the table at which he was sitting.

ГўВҖВңWhat ails you, baron?ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed. ГўВҖВңYou appear quite aghast. Has
your uneasiness anything to do with what M. de Blacas has told me, and
M. de Villefort has just confirmed?ГўВҖВқ M. de Blacas moved suddenly
towards the baron, but the fright of the courtier pleaded for the
forbearance of the statesman; and besides, as matters were, it was much
more to his advantage that the prefect of police should triumph over
him than that he should humiliate the prefect.

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ stammered the baron.

ГўВҖВңWell, what is it?ГўВҖВқ asked Louis XVIII. The minister of police, giving
way to an impulse of despair, was about to throw himself at the feet of
Louis XVIII., who retreated a step and frowned.

ГўВҖВңWill you speak?ГўВҖВқ he said.

ГўВҖВңOh, sire, what a dreadful misfortune! I am, indeed, to be pitied. I
can never forgive myself!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., ГўВҖВңI command you to speak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sire, the usurper left Elba on the 26th February, and landed on
the 1st of March.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where? In Italy?ГўВҖВқ asked the king eagerly.

ГўВҖВңIn France, sire,ГўВҖВ”at a small port, near Antibes, in the Gulf of Juan.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe usurper landed in France, near Antibes, in the Gulf of Juan, two
hundred and fifty leagues from Paris, on the 1st of March, and you only
acquired this information today, the 3rd of March! Well, sir, what you
tell me is impossible. You must have received a false report, or you
have gone mad.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, sire, it is but too true!ГўВҖВқ Louis made a gesture of indescribable
anger and alarm, and then drew himself up as if this sudden blow had
struck him at the same moment in heart and countenance.

ГўВҖВңIn France!ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңthe usurper in France! Then they did not watch
over this man. Who knows? they were, perhaps, in league with him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, sire,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the Duc de Blacas, ГўВҖВңM. DandrГғВ© is not a man to be
accused of treason! Sire, we have all been blind, and the minister of
police has shared the general blindness, that is all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңButГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, and then suddenly checking himself, he was
silent; then he continued, ГўВҖВңYour pardon, sire,ГўВҖВқ he said, bowing, ГўВҖВңmy
zeal carried me away. Will your majesty deign to excuse me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSpeak, sir, speak boldly,ГўВҖВқ replied Louis. ГўВҖВңYou alone forewarned us of
the evil; now try and aid us with the remedy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңthe usurper is detested in the south; and it
seems to me that if he ventured into the south, it would be easy to
raise Languedoc and Provence against him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, assuredly,ГўВҖВқ replied the minister; ГўВҖВңbut he is advancing by Gap and
Sisteron.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAdvancingГўВҖВ”he is advancing!ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII. ГўВҖВңIs he then advancing on
Paris?ГўВҖВқ The minister of police maintained a silence which was
equivalent to a complete avowal.

ГўВҖВңAnd DauphinГғВ©, sir?ГўВҖВқ inquired the king, of Villefort. ГўВҖВңDo you think it
possible to rouse that as well as Provence?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, I am sorry to tell your majesty a cruel fact; but the feeling in
DauphinГғВ© is quite the reverse of that in Provence or Languedoc. The
mountaineers are Bonapartists, sire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ murmured Louis, ГўВҖВңhe was well informed. And how many men had he
with him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know, sire,ГўВҖВқ answered the minister of police.

ГўВҖВңWhat, you do not know! Have you neglected to obtain information on
that point? Of course it is of no consequence,ГўВҖВқ he added, with a
withering smile.

ГўВҖВңSire, it was impossible to learn; the despatch simply stated the fact
of the landing and the route taken by the usurper.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how did this despatch reach you?ГўВҖВқ inquired the king. The minister
bowed his head, and while a deep color overspread his cheeks, he
stammered out:

ГўВҖВңBy the telegraph, sire.ГўВҖВқ Louis XVIII. advanced a step, and folded his
arms over his chest as Napoleon would have done.

0141m



ГўВҖВңSo then,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, turning pale with anger, ГўВҖВңseven conjoined and
allied armies overthrew that man. A miracle of heaven replaced me on
the throne of my fathers after five-and-twenty years of exile. I have,
during those five-and-twenty years, spared no pains to understand the
people of France and the interests which were confided to me; and now,
when I see the fruition of my wishes almost within reach, the power I
hold in my hands bursts and shatters me to atoms!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, it is fatality!ГўВҖВқ murmured the minister, feeling that the
pressure of circumstances, however light a thing to destiny, was too
much for any human strength to endure.

ГўВҖВңWhat our enemies say of us is then true. We have learnt nothing,
forgotten nothing! If I were betrayed as he was, I would console
myself; but to be in the midst of persons elevated by myself to places
of honor, who ought to watch over me more carefully than over
themselves,ГўВҖВ”for my fortune is theirsГўВҖВ”before me they were nothingГўВҖВ”after
me they will be nothing, and perish miserably from
incapacityГўВҖВ”ineptitude! Oh, yes, sir, you are rightГўВҖВ”it is fatality!ГўВҖВқ

The minister quailed before this outburst of sarcasm. M. de Blacas
wiped the moisture from his brow. Villefort smiled within himself, for
he felt his increased importance.

ГўВҖВңTo fall,ГўВҖВқ continued King Louis, who at the first glance had sounded
the abyss on which the monarchy hung suspended,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңto fall, and learn of
that fall by telegraph! Oh, I would rather mount the scaffold of my
brother, Louis XVI., than thus descend the staircase at the Tuileries
driven away by ridicule. Ridicule, sirГўВҖВ”why, you know not its power in
France, and yet you ought to know it!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, sire,ГўВҖВқ murmured the minister, ГўВҖВңfor pityГўВҖВҷsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңApproach, M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ resumed the king, addressing the young
man, who, motionless and breathless, was listening to a conversation on
which depended the destiny of a kingdom. ГўВҖВңApproach, and tell monsieur
that it is possible to know beforehand all that he has not known.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, it was really impossible to learn secrets which that man
concealed from all the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally impossible! YesГўВҖВ”that is a great word, sir. Unfortunately, there
are great words, as there are great men; I have measured them. Really
impossible for a minister who has an office, agents, spies, and fifteen
hundred thousand francs for secret service money, to know what is going
on at sixty leagues from the coast of France! Well, then, see, here is
a gentleman who had none of these resources at his disposalГўВҖВ”a
gentleman, only a simple magistrate, who learned more than you with all
your police, and who would have saved my crown, if, like you, he had
the power of directing a telegraph.ГўВҖВқ The look of the minister of police
was turned with concentrated spite on Villefort, who bent his head in
modest triumph.

ГўВҖВңI do not mean that for you, Blacas,ГўВҖВқ continued Louis XVIII.; ГўВҖВңfor if
you have discovered nothing, at least you have had the good sense to
persevere in your suspicions. Any other than yourself would have
considered the disclosure of M. de Villefort insignificant, or else
dictated by venal ambition.ГўВҖВқ These words were an allusion to the
sentiments which the minister of police had uttered with so much
confidence an hour before.

Villefort understood the kingГўВҖВҷs intent. Any other person would,
perhaps, have been overcome by such an intoxicating draught of praise;
but he feared to make for himself a mortal enemy of the police
minister, although he saw that DandrГғВ© was irrevocably lost. In fact,
the minister, who, in the plenitude of his power, had been unable to
unearth NapoleonГўВҖВҷs secret, might in despair at his own downfall
interrogate DantГғВЁs and so lay bare the motives of VillefortГўВҖВҷs plot.
Realizing this, Villefort came to the rescue of the crest-fallen
minister, instead of aiding to crush him.

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңthe suddenness of this event must prove to
your majesty that the issue is in the hands of Providence; what your
majesty is pleased to attribute to me as profound perspicacity is
simply owing to chance, and I have profited by that chance, like a good
and devoted servantГўВҖВ”thatГўВҖВҷs all. Do not attribute to me more than I
deserve, sire, that your majesty may never have occasion to recall the
first opinion you have been pleased to form of me.ГўВҖВқ The minister of
police thanked the young man by an eloquent look, and Villefort
understood that he had succeeded in his design; that is to say, that
without forfeiting the gratitude of the king, he had made a friend of
one on whom, in case of necessity, he might rely.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis well,ГўВҖВқ resumed the king. ГўВҖВңAnd now, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ he continued,
turning towards M. de Blacas and the minister of police, ГўВҖВңI have no
further occasion for you, and you may retire; what now remains to do is
in the department of the minister of war.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFortunately, sire,ГўВҖВқ said M. de Blacas, ГўВҖВңwe can rely on the army; your
majesty knows how every report confirms their loyalty and attachment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not mention reports, duke, to me, for I know now what confidence to
place in them. Yet, speaking of reports, baron, what have you learned
with regard to the affair in the Rue Saint-Jacques?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe affair in the Rue Saint-Jacques!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Villefort, unable to
repress an exclamation. Then, suddenly pausing, he added, ГўВҖВңYour pardon,
sire, but my devotion to your majesty has made me forget, not the
respect I have, for that is too deeply engraved in my heart, but the
rules of etiquette.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on, go on, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the king; ГўВҖВңyou have today earned the right
to make inquiries here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ interposed the minister of police, ГўВҖВңI came a moment ago to give
your majesty fresh information which I had obtained on this head, when
your majestyГўВҖВҷs attention was attracted by the terrible event that has
occurred in the gulf, and now these facts will cease to interest your
majesty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, sir,ГўВҖВ”on the contrary,ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., ГўВҖВңthis
affair seems to me to have a decided connection with that which
occupies our attention, and the death of General Quesnel will, perhaps,
put us on the direct track of a great internal conspiracy.ГўВҖВқ At the name
of General Quesnel, Villefort trembled.

ГўВҖВңEverything points to the conclusion, sire,ГўВҖВқ said the minister of
police, ГўВҖВңthat death was not the result of suicide, as we first
believed, but of assassination. General Quesnel, it appears, had just
left a Bonapartist club when he disappeared. An unknown person had been
with him that morning, and made an appointment with him in the Rue
Saint-Jacques; unfortunately, the generalГўВҖВҷs valet, who was dressing his
hair at the moment when the stranger entered, heard the street
mentioned, but did not catch the number.ГўВҖВқ As the police minister
related this to the king, Villefort, who looked as if his very life
hung on the speakerГўВҖВҷs lips, turned alternately red and pale. The king
looked towards him.

ГўВҖВңDo you not think with me, M. de Villefort, that General Quesnel, whom
they believed attached to the usurper, but who was really entirely
devoted to me, has perished the victim of a Bonapartist ambush?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is probable, sire,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort. ГўВҖВңBut is this all that is
known?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey are on the track of the man who appointed the meeting with him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn his track?ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYes, the servant has given his description. He is a man of from fifty
to fifty-two years of age, dark, with black eyes covered with shaggy
eyebrows, and a thick moustache. He was dressed in a blue frock-coat,
buttoned up to the chin, and wore at his button-hole the rosette of an
officer of the Legion of Honor. Yesterday a person exactly
corresponding with this description was followed, but he was lost sight
of at the corner of the Rue de la Jussienne and the Rue Coq-HГғВ©ron.ГўВҖВқ
Villefort leaned on the back of an armchair, for as the minister of
police went on speaking he felt his legs bend under him; but when he
learned that the unknown had escaped the vigilance of the agent who
followed him, he breathed again.

ГўВҖВңContinue to seek for this man, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the king to the minister of
police; ГўВҖВңfor if, as I am all but convinced, General Quesnel, who would
have been so useful to us at this moment, has been murdered, his
assassins, Bonapartists or not, shall be cruelly punished.ГўВҖВқ It required
all VillefortГўВҖВҷs coolness not to betray the terror with which this
declaration of the king inspired him.

ГўВҖВңHow strange,ГўВҖВқ continued the king, with some asperity; ГўВҖВңthe police
think that they have disposed of the whole matter when they say, ГўВҖВҳA
murder has been committed,ГўВҖВҷ and especially so when they can add, ГўВҖВҳAnd
we are on the track of the guilty persons.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, your majesty will, I trust, be amply satisfied on this point at
least.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe shall see. I will no longer detain you, M. de Villefort, for you
must be fatigued after so long a journey; go and rest. Of course you
stopped at your fatherГўВҖВҷs?ГўВҖВқ A feeling of faintness came over Villefort.

0145m



ГўВҖВңNo, sire,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңI alighted at the Hotel de Madrid, in the Rue
de Tournon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you have seen him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, I went straight to the Duc de Blacas.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you will see him, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think not, sire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, I forgot,ГўВҖВқ said Louis, smiling in a manner which proved that all
these questions were not made without a motive; ГўВҖВңI forgot you and M.
Noirtier are not on the best terms possible, and that is another
sacrifice made to the royal cause, and for which you should be
recompensed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire, the kindness your majesty deigns to evince towards me is a
recompense which so far surpasses my utmost ambition that I have
nothing more to ask for.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind, sir, we will not forget you; make your mind easy. In the
meanwhileГўВҖВқ (the king here detached the cross of the Legion of Honor
which he usually wore over his blue coat, near the cross of St. Louis,
above the order of Notre-Dame-du-Mont-Carmel and St. Lazare, and gave
it to Villefort)ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңin the meanwhile take this cross.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңyour majesty mistakes; this is an officerГўВҖВҷs
cross.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ГўВҖВқ said Louis XVIII., ГўВҖВңtake it, such as it is, for I have not
the time to procure you another. Blacas, let it be your care to see
that the brevet is made out and sent to M. de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ VillefortГўВҖВҷs
eyes were filled with tears of joy and pride; he took the cross and
kissed it.

ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңmay I inquire what are the orders with which your
majesty deigns to honor me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake what rest you require, and remember that if you are not able to
serve me here in Paris, you may be of the greatest service to me at
Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSire,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, bowing, ГўВҖВңin an hour I shall have quitted
Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the king; ГўВҖВңand should I forget you (kingsГўВҖВҷ memories are
short), do not be afraid to bring yourself to my recollection. Baron,
send for the minister of war. Blacas, remain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the minister of police to Villefort, as they left the
Tuileries, ГўВҖВңyou entered by luckГўВҖВҷs doorГўВҖВ”your fortune is made.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill it be long first?ГўВҖВқ muttered Villefort, saluting the minister,
whose career was ended, and looking about him for a hackney-coach. One
passed at the moment, which he hailed; he gave his address to the
driver, and springing in, threw himself on the seat, and gave loose to
dreams of ambition.

Ten minutes afterwards Villefort reached his hotel, ordered horses to
be ready in two hours, and asked to have his breakfast brought to him.
He was about to begin his repast when the sound of the bell rang sharp
and loud. The valet opened the door, and Villefort heard someone speak
his name.

0147m



ГўВҖВңWho could know that I was here already?ГўВҖВқ said the young man. The valet
entered.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңwhat is it?ГўВҖВ”Who rang?ГўВҖВ”Who asked for me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA stranger who will not send in his name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA stranger who will not send in his name! What can he want with me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe wishes to speak to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid he mention my name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat sort of person is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, sir, a man of about fifty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShort or tall?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbout your own height, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDark or fair?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDark,ГўВҖВ”very dark; with black eyes, black hair, black eyebrows.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how dressed?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort quickly.

ГўВҖВңIn a blue frock-coat, buttoned up close, decorated with the Legion of
Honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is he!ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, turning pale.

0148m



ГўВҖВңEh, _pardieu!_ГўВҖВқ said the individual whose description we have twice
given, entering the door, ГўВҖВңwhat a great deal of ceremony! Is it the
custom in Marseilles for sons to keep their fathers waiting in their
anterooms?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFather!ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, ГўВҖВңthen I was not deceived; I felt sure it
must be you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, if you felt so sure,ГўВҖВқ replied the new-comer, putting his
cane in a corner and his hat on a chair, ГўВҖВңallow me to say, my dear
GГғВ©rard, that it was not very filial of you to keep me waiting at the
door.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLeave us, Germain,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort. The servant quitted the apartment
with evident signs of astonishment.



 Chapter 12. Father and Son

M. NoirtierГўВҖВ”for it was, indeed, he who enteredГўВҖВ”looked after the servant
until the door was closed, and then, fearing, no doubt, that he might
be overheard in the antechamber, he opened the door again, nor was the
precaution useless, as appeared from the rapid retreat of Germain, who
proved that he was not exempt from the sin which ruined our first
parents. M. Noirtier then took the trouble to close and bolt the
antechamber door, then that of the bedchamber, and then extended his
hand to Villefort, who had followed all his motions with surprise which
he could not conceal.

ГўВҖВңWell, now, my dear GГғВ©rard,ГўВҖВқ said he to the young man, with a very
significant look, ГўВҖВңdo you know, you seem as if you were not very glad
to see me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear father,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңI am, on the contrary, delighted;
but I so little expected your visit, that it has somewhat overcome me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, my dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ replied M. Noirtier, seating himself, ГўВҖВңI might
say the same thing to you, when you announce to me your wedding for the
28th of February, and on the 3rd of March you turn up here in Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd if I have come, my dear father,ГўВҖВқ said GГғВ©rard, drawing closer to M.
Noirtier, ГўВҖВңdo not complain, for it is for you that I came, and my
journey will be your salvation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed!ГўВҖВқ said M. Noirtier, stretching himself out at his ease in
the chair. ГўВҖВңReally, pray tell me all about it, for it must be
interesting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFather, you have heard speak of a certain Bonapartist club in the Rue
Saint-Jacques?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo. 53; yes, I am vice-president.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFather, your coolness makes me shudder.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, my dear boy, when a man has been proscribed by the mountaineers,
has escaped from Paris in a hay-cart, been hunted over the plains of
Bordeaux by RobespierreГўВҖВҷs bloodhounds, he becomes accustomed to most
things. But go on, what about the club in the Rue Saint-Jacques?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, they induced General Quesnel to go there, and General Quesnel,
who quitted his own house at nine oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening, was found the
next day in the Seine.ГўВҖВқ

0151m



ГўВҖВңAnd who told you this fine story?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe king himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, in return for your story,ГўВҖВқ continued Noirtier, ГўВҖВңI will
tell you another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear father, I think I already know what you are about to tell me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you have heard of the landing of the emperor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot so loud, father, I entreat of youГўВҖВ”for your own sake as well as
mine. Yes, I heard this news, and knew it even before you could; for
three days ago I posted from Marseilles to Paris with all possible
speed, half-desperate at the enforced delay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThree days ago? You are crazy. Why, three days ago the emperor had not
landed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo matter, I was aware of his intention.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow did you know about it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy a letter addressed to you from the Island of Elba.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo you; and which I discovered in the pocket-book of the messenger.
Had that letter fallen into the hands of another, you, my dear father,
would probably ere this have been shot.ГўВҖВқ VillefortГўВҖВҷs father laughed.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwill the Restoration adopt imperial methods so
promptly? Shot, my dear boy? What an idea! Where is the letter you
speak of? I know you too well to suppose you would allow such a thing
to pass you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI burnt it, for fear that even a fragment should remain; for that
letter must have led to your condemnation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the destruction of your future prospects,ГўВҖВқ replied Noirtier; ГўВҖВңyes,
I can easily comprehend that. But I have nothing to fear while I have
you to protect me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do better than that, sirГўВҖВ”I save you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do? Why, really, the thing becomes more and more dramaticГўВҖВ”explain
yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI must refer again to the club in the Rue Saint-Jacques.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt appears that this club is rather a bore to the police. Why didnГўВҖВҷt
they search more vigilantly? they would have foundГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey have not found; but they are on the track.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, that the usual phrase; I am quite familiar with it. When the
police is at fault, it declares that it is on the track; and the
government patiently awaits the day when it comes to say, with a
sneaking air, that the track is lost.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but they have found a corpse; the general has been killed, and in
all countries they call that a murder.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA murder do you call it? why, there is nothing to prove that the
general was murdered. People are found every day in the Seine, having
thrown themselves in, or having been drowned from not knowing how to
swim.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFather, you know very well that the general was not a man to drown
himself in despair, and people do not bathe in the Seine in the month
of January. No, no, do not be deceived; this was murder in every sense
of the word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who thus designated it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe king himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe king! I thought he was philosopher enough to allow that there was
no murder in politics. In politics, my dear fellow, you know, as well
as I do, there are no men, but ideasГўВҖВ”no feelings, but interests; in
politics we do not kill a man, we only remove an obstacle, that is all.
Would you like to know how matters have progressed? Well, I will tell
you. It was thought reliance might be placed in General Quesnel; he was
recommended to us from the Island of Elba; one of us went to him, and
invited him to the Rue Saint-Jacques, where he would find some friends.
He came there, and the plan was unfolded to him for leaving Elba, the
projected landing, etc. When he had heard and comprehended all to the
fullest extent, he replied that he was a royalist. Then all looked at
each other,ГўВҖВ”he was made to take an oath, and did so, but with such an
ill grace that it was really tempting Providence to swear thus, and
yet, in spite of that, the general was allowed to depart freeГўВҖВ”perfectly
free. Yet he did not return home. What could that mean? why, my dear
fellow, that on leaving us he lost his way, thatГўВҖВҷs all. A murder?
really, Villefort, you surprise me. You, a deputy procureur, to found
an accusation on such bad premises! Did I ever say to you, when you
were fulfilling your character as a royalist, and cut off the head of
one of my party, ГўВҖВҳMy son, you have committed a murder?ГўВҖВҷ No, I said,
ГўВҖВҳVery well, sir, you have gained the victory; tomorrow, perchance, it
will be our turn.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, father, take care; when our turn comes, our revenge will be
sweeping.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not understand you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou rely on the usurperГўВҖВҷs return?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken; he will not advance two leagues into the interior of
France without being followed, tracked, and caught like a wild beast.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow, the emperor is at this moment on the way to Grenoble;
on the 10th or 12th he will be at Lyons, and on the 20th or 25th at
Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe people will rise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, to go and meet him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has but a handful of men with him, and armies will be despatched
against him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, to escort him into the capital. Really, my dear GГғВ©rard, you are
but a child; you think yourself well informed because the telegraph has
told you, three days after the landing, ГўВҖВҳThe usurper has landed at
Cannes with several men. He is pursued.ГўВҖВҷ But where is he? what is he
doing? You do not know at all, and in this way they will chase him to
Paris, without drawing a trigger.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGrenoble and Lyons are faithful cities, and will oppose to him an
impassable barrier.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGrenoble will open her gates to him with enthusiasmГўВҖВ”all Lyons will
hasten to welcome him. Believe me, we are as well informed as you, and
our police are as good as your own. Would you like a proof of it? well,
you wished to conceal your journey from me, and yet I knew of your
arrival half an hour after you had passed the barrier. You gave your
direction to no one but your postilion, yet I have your address, and in
proof I am here the very instant you are going to sit at table. Ring,
then, if you please, for a second knife, fork, and plate, and we will
dine together.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed!ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, looking at his father with astonishment,
ГўВҖВңyou really do seem very well informed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEh? the thing is simple enough. You who are in power have only the
means that money producesГўВҖВ”we who are in expectation, have those which
devotion prompts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDevotion!ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, with a sneer.

ГўВҖВңYes, devotion; for that is, I believe, the phrase for hopeful
ambition.ГўВҖВқ

And VillefortГўВҖВҷs father extended his hand to the bell-rope, to summon
the servant whom his son had not called. Villefort caught his arm.

ГўВҖВңWait, my dear father,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңone word more.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHowever stupid the royalist police may be, they do know one terrible
thing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe description of the man who, on the morning of the day when General
Quesnel disappeared, presented himself at his house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, the admirable police have found that out, have they? And what may
be that description?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDark complexion; hair, eyebrows, and whiskers black; blue frock-coat,
buttoned up to the chin; rosette of an officer of the Legion of Honor
in his button-hole; a hat with wide brim, and a cane.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, ha, thatГўВҖВҷs it, is it?ГўВҖВқ said Noirtier; ГўВҖВңand why, then, have they
not laid hands on him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause yesterday, or the day before, they lost sight of him at the
corner of the Rue Coq-HГғВ©ron.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDidnГўВҖВҷt I say that your police were good for nothing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but they may catch him yet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Noirtier, looking carelessly around him, ГўВҖВңtrue, if this
person were not on his guard, as he is;ГўВҖВқ and he added with a smile, ГўВҖВңHe
will consequently make a few changes in his personal appearance.ГўВҖВқ At
these words he rose, and put off his frock-coat and cravat, went
towards a table on which lay his sonГўВҖВҷs toilet articles, lathered his
face, took a razor, and, with a firm hand, cut off the compromising
whiskers. Villefort watched him with alarm not devoid of admiration.

His whiskers cut off, Noirtier gave another turn to his hair; took,
instead of his black cravat, a colored neckerchief which lay at the top
of an open portmanteau; put on, in lieu of his blue and high-buttoned
frock-coat, a coat of VillefortГўВҖВҷs of dark brown, and cut away in front;
tried on before the glass a narrow-brimmed hat of his sonГўВҖВҷs, which
appeared to fit him perfectly, and, leaving his cane in the corner
where he had deposited it, he took up a small bamboo switch, cut the
air with it once or twice, and walked about with that easy swagger
which was one of his principal characteristics.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ he said, turning towards his wondering son, when this disguise
was completed, ГўВҖВңwell, do you think your police will recognize me now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, father,ГўВҖВқ stammered Villefort; ГўВҖВңat least, I hope not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd now, my dear boy,ГўВҖВқ continued Noirtier, ГўВҖВңI rely on your prudence to
remove all the things which I leave in your care.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, rely on me,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes; and now I believe you are right, and that you have really
saved my life; be assured I will return the favor hereafter.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort shook his head.

ГўВҖВңYou are not convinced yet?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hope at least, that you may be mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall you see the king again?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWould you pass in his eyes for a prophet?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProphets of evil are not in favor at the court, father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, but some day they do them justice; and supposing a second
restoration, you would then pass for a great man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what should I say to the king?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay this to him: ГўВҖВҳSire, you are deceived as to the feeling in France,
as to the opinions of the towns, and the prejudices of the army; he
whom in Paris you call the Corsican ogre, who at Nevers is styled the
usurper, is already saluted as Bonaparte at Lyons, and emperor at
Grenoble. You think he is tracked, pursued, captured; he is advancing
as rapidly as his own eagles. The soldiers you believe to be dying with
hunger, worn out with fatigue, ready to desert, gather like atoms of
snow about the rolling ball as it hastens onward. Sire, go, leave
France to its real master, to him who acquired it, not by purchase, but
by right of conquest; go, sire, not that you incur any risk, for your
adversary is powerful enough to show you mercy, but because it would be
humiliating for a grandson of Saint Louis to owe his life to the man of
Arcola, Marengo, Austerlitz.ГўВҖВҷ Tell him this, GГғВ©rard; or, rather, tell
him nothing. Keep your journey a secret; do not boast of what you have
come to Paris to do, or have done; return with all speed; enter
Marseilles at night, and your house by the back-door, and there remain,
quiet, submissive, secret, and, above all, inoffensive; for this time,
I swear to you, we shall act like powerful men who know their enemies.
Go, my sonГўВҖВ”go, my dear GГғВ©rard, and by your obedience to my paternal
orders, or, if you prefer it, friendly counsels, we will keep you in
your place. This will be,ГўВҖВқ added Noirtier, with a smile, ГўВҖВңone means by
which you may a second time save me, if the political balance should
some day take another turn, and cast you aloft while hurling me down.
Adieu, my dear GГғВ©rard, and at your next journey alight at my door.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier left the room when he had finished, with the same calmness
that had characterized him during the whole of this remarkable and
trying conversation. Villefort, pale and agitated, ran to the window,
put aside the curtain, and saw him pass, cool and collected, by two or
three ill-looking men at the corner of the street, who were there,
perhaps, to arrest a man with black whiskers, and a blue frock-coat,
and hat with broad brim.

Villefort stood watching, breathless, until his father had disappeared
at the Rue Bussy. Then he turned to the various articles he had left
behind him, put the black cravat and blue frock-coat at the bottom of
the portmanteau, threw the hat into a dark closet, broke the cane into
small bits and flung it in the fire, put on his travelling-cap, and
calling his valet, checked with a look the thousand questions he was
ready to ask, paid his bill, sprang into his carriage, which was ready,
learned at Lyons that Bonaparte had entered Grenoble, and in the midst
of the tumult which prevailed along the road, at length reached
Marseilles, a prey to all the hopes and fears which enter into the
heart of man with ambition and its first successes.



 Chapter 13. The Hundred Days

M. Noirtier was a true prophet, and things progressed rapidly, as he
had predicted. Everyone knows the history of the famous return from
Elba, a return which was unprecedented in the past, and will probably
remain without a counterpart in the future.

Louis XVIII. made but a faint attempt to parry this unexpected blow;
the monarchy he had scarcely reconstructed tottered on its precarious
foundation, and at a sign from the emperor the incongruous structure of
ancient prejudices and new ideas fell to the ground. Villefort,
therefore, gained nothing save the kingГўВҖВҷs gratitude (which was rather
likely to injure him at the present time) and the cross of the Legion
of Honor, which he had the prudence not to wear, although M. de Blacas
had duly forwarded the brevet.

Napoleon would, doubtless, have deprived Villefort of his office had it
not been for Noirtier, who was all powerful at court, and thus the
Girondin of ГўВҖВҷ93 and the Senator of 1806 protected him who so lately had
been his protector. All VillefortГўВҖВҷs influence barely enabled him to
stifle the secret DantГғВЁs had so nearly divulged. The kingГўВҖВҷs procureur
alone was deprived of his office, being suspected of royalism.

However, scarcely was the imperial power establishedГўВҖВ”that is, scarcely
had the emperor re-entered the Tuileries and begun to issue orders from
the closet into which we have introduced our readers,ГўВҖВ”he found on the
table there Louis XVIII.ГўВҖВҷs half-filled snuff-box,ГўВҖВ”scarcely had this
occurred when Marseilles began, in spite of the authorities, to
rekindle the flames of civil war, always smouldering in the south, and
it required but little to excite the populace to acts of far greater
violence than the shouts and insults with which they assailed the
royalists whenever they ventured abroad.

0159m



Owing to this change, the worthy shipowner became at that momentГўВҖВ”we
will not say all powerful, because Morrel was a prudent and rather a
timid man, so much so, that many of the most zealous partisans of
Bonaparte accused him of ГўВҖВңmoderationГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”but sufficiently influential to
make a demand in favor of DantГғВЁs.

Villefort retained his place, but his marriage was put off until a more
favorable opportunity. If the emperor remained on the throne, GГғВ©rard
required a different alliance to aid his career; if Louis XVIII.
returned, the influence of M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran, like his own, could be
vastly increased, and the marriage be still more suitable. The deputy
procureur was, therefore, the first magistrate of Marseilles, when one
morning his door opened, and M. Morrel was announced.

Anyone else would have hastened to receive him; but Villefort was a man
of ability, and he knew this would be a sign of weakness. He made
Morrel wait in the antechamber, although he had no one with him, for
the simple reason that the kingГўВҖВҷs procureur always makes everyone wait,
and after passing a quarter of an hour in reading the papers, he
ordered M. Morrel to be admitted.

Morrel expected Villefort would be dejected; he found him as he had
found him six weeks before, calm, firm, and full of that glacial
politeness, that most insurmountable barrier which separates the
well-bred from the vulgar man.

He had entered VillefortГўВҖВҷs office expecting that the magistrate would
tremble at the sight of him; on the contrary, he felt a cold shudder
all over him when he saw Villefort sitting there with his elbow on his
desk, and his head leaning on his hand. He stopped at the door;
Villefort gazed at him as if he had some difficulty in recognizing him;
then, after a brief interval, during which the honest shipowner turned
his hat in his hands,

ГўВҖВңM. Morrel, I believe?ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome nearer,ГўВҖВқ said the magistrate, with a patronizing wave of the
hand, ГўВҖВңand tell me to what circumstance I owe the honor of this visit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you not guess, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңNot in the least; but if I can serve you in any way I shall be
delighted.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverything depends on you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExplain yourself, pray.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, recovering his assurance as he proceeded, ГўВҖВңdo
you recollect that a few days before the landing of his majesty the
emperor, I came to intercede for a young man, the mate of my ship, who
was accused of being concerned in correspondence with the Island of
Elba? What was the other day a crime is today a title to favor. You
then served Louis XVIII., and you did not show any favorГўВҖВ”it was your
duty; today you serve Napoleon, and you ought to protect himГўВҖВ”it is
equally your duty; I come, therefore, to ask what has become of him?ГўВҖВқ

0161m



Villefort by a strong effort sought to control himself. ГўВҖВңWhat is his
name?ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңTell me his name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEdmond DantГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort would probably have rather stood opposite the muzzle of a
pistol at five-and-twenty paces than have heard this name spoken; but
he did not blanch.

ГўВҖВңDantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ repeated he, ГўВҖВңEdmond DantГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, monsieur.ГўВҖВқ Villefort opened a large register, then went to a
table, from the table turned to his registers, and then, turning to
Morrel,

ГўВҖВңAre you quite sure you are not mistaken, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ said he, in the
most natural tone in the world.

Had Morrel been a more quick-sighted man, or better versed in these
matters, he would have been surprised at the kingГўВҖВҷs procureur answering
him on such a subject, instead of referring him to the governors of the
prison or the prefect of the department. But Morrel, disappointed in
his expectations of exciting fear, was conscious only of the otherГўВҖВҷs
condescension. Villefort had calculated rightly.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңI am not mistaken. I have known him for ten years,
the last four of which he was in my service. Do not you recollect, I
came about six weeks ago to plead for clemency, as I come today to
plead for justice. You received me very coldly. Oh, the royalists were
very severe with the Bonapartists in those days.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ returned Villefort, ГўВҖВңI was then a royalist, because I
believed the Bourbons not only the heirs to the throne, but the chosen
of the nation. The miraculous return of Napoleon has conquered me, the
legitimate monarch is he who is loved by his people.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs right!ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel. ГўВҖВңI like to hear you speak thus, and I
augur well for Edmond from it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait a moment,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, turning over the leaves of a register;
ГўВҖВңI have itГўВҖВ”a sailor, who was about to marry a young Catalan girl. I
recollect now; it was a very serious charge.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know that when he left here he was taken to the Palais de
Justice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI made my report to the authorities at Paris, and a week after he was
carried off.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCarried off!ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. ГўВҖВңWhat can they have done with him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, he has been taken to Fenestrelles, to Pignerol, or to the
Sainte-MarguГғВ©rite islands. Some fine morning he will return to take
command of your vessel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome when he will, it shall be kept for him. But how is it he is not
already returned? It seems to me the first care of government should be
to set at liberty those who have suffered for their adherence to it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not be too hasty, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort. ГўВҖВңThe order of
imprisonment came from high authority, and the order for his liberation
must proceed from the same source; and, as Napoleon has scarcely been
reinstated a fortnight, the letters have not yet been forwarded.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңis there no way of expediting all these
formalitiesГўВҖВ”of releasing him from arrest?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere has been no arrest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is sometimes essential to government to cause a manГўВҖВҷs disappearance
without leaving any traces, so that no written forms or documents may
defeat their wishes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt might be so under the Bourbons, but at presentГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt has always been so, my dear Morrel, since the reign of Louis XIV.
The emperor is more strict in prison discipline than even Louis
himself, and the number of prisoners whose names are not on the
register is incalculable.ГўВҖВқ Had Morrel even any suspicions, so much
kindness would have dispelled them.

ГўВҖВңWell, M. de Villefort, how would you advise me to act?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңPetition the minister.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I know what that is; the minister receives two hundred petitions
every day, and does not read three.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is true; but he will read a petition countersigned and presented
by me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd will you undertake to deliver it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith the greatest pleasure. DantГғВЁs was then guilty, and now he is
innocent, and it is as much my duty to free him as it was to condemn
him.ГўВҖВқ Villefort thus forestalled any danger of an inquiry, which,
however improbable it might be, if it did take place would leave him
defenceless.

ГўВҖВңBut how shall I address the minister?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSit down there,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, giving up his place to Morrel, ГўВҖВңand
write what I dictate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you be so good?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly. But lose no time; we have lost too much already.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is true. Only think what the poor fellow may even now be
suffering.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort shuddered at the suggestion; but he had gone too far to draw
back. DantГғВЁs must be crushed to gratify VillefortГўВҖВҷs ambition.

Villefort dictated a petition, in which, from an excellent intention,
no doubt, DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ patriotic services were exaggerated, and he was made
out one of the most active agents of NapoleonГўВҖВҷs return. It was evident
that at the sight of this document the minister would instantly release
him. The petition finished, Villefort read it aloud.

ГўВҖВңThat will do,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңleave the rest to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill the petition go soon?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңToday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCountersigned by you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe best thing I can do will be to certify the truth of the contents
of your petition.ГўВҖВқ And, sitting down, Villefort wrote the certificate
at the bottom.

ГўВҖВңWhat more is to be done?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will do whatever is necessary.ГўВҖВқ This assurance delighted Morrel, who
took leave of Villefort, and hastened to announce to old DantГғВЁs that he
would soon see his son.

As for Villefort, instead of sending to Paris, he carefully preserved
the petition that so fearfully compromised DantГғВЁs, in the hopes of an
event that seemed not unlikely,ГўВҖВ”that is, a second restoration. DantГғВЁs
remained a prisoner, and heard not the noise of the fall of Louis
XVIII.ГўВҖВҷs throne, or the still more tragic destruction of the empire.

Twice during the Hundred Days had Morrel renewed his demand, and twice
had Villefort soothed him with promises. At last there was Waterloo,
and Morrel came no more; he had done all that was in his power, and any
fresh attempt would only compromise himself uselessly.

Louis XVIII. remounted the throne; Villefort, to whom Marseilles had
become filled with remorseful memories, sought and obtained the
situation of kingГўВҖВҷs procureur at Toulouse, and a fortnight afterwards
he married Mademoiselle de Saint-MГғВ©ran, whose father now stood higher
at court than ever.

And so DantГғВЁs, after the Hundred Days and after Waterloo, remained in
his dungeon, forgotten of earth and heaven.

Danglars comprehended the full extent of the wretched fate that
overwhelmed DantГғВЁs; and, when Napoleon returned to France, he, after
the manner of mediocre minds, termed the coincidence, _a decree of
Providence_. But when Napoleon returned to Paris, DanglarsГўВҖВҷ heart
failed him, and he lived in constant fear of DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ return on a
mission of vengeance. He therefore informed M. Morrel of his wish to
quit the sea, and obtained a recommendation from him to a Spanish
merchant, into whose service he entered at the end of March, that is,
ten or twelve days after NapoleonГўВҖВҷs return. He then left for Madrid,
and was no more heard of.

Fernand understood nothing except that DantГғВЁs was absent. What had
become of him he cared not to inquire. Only, during the respite the
absence of his rival afforded him, he reflected, partly on the means of
deceiving MercГғВ©dГғВЁs as to the cause of his absence, partly on plans of
emigration and abduction, as from time to time he sat sad and
motionless on the summit of Cape Pharo, at the spot from whence
Marseilles and the Catalans are visible, watching for the apparition of
a young and handsome man, who was for him also the messenger of
vengeance. FernandГўВҖВҷs mind was made up; he would shoot DantГғВЁs, and then
kill himself. But Fernand was mistaken; a man of his disposition never
kills himself, for he constantly hopes.

During this time the empire made its last conscription, and every man
in France capable of bearing arms rushed to obey the summons of the
emperor. Fernand departed with the rest, bearing with him the terrible
thought that while he was away, his rival would perhaps return and
marry MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. Had Fernand really meant to kill himself, he would have
done so when he parted from MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. His devotion, and the compassion
he showed for her misfortunes, produced the effect they always produce
on noble mindsГўВҖВ”MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had always had a sincere regard for Fernand,
and this was now strengthened by gratitude.

ГўВҖВңMy brother,ГўВҖВқ said she, as she placed his knapsack on his shoulders,
ГўВҖВңbe careful of yourself, for if you are killed, I shall be alone in the
world.ГўВҖВқ These words carried a ray of hope into FernandГўВҖВҷs heart. Should
DantГғВЁs not return, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs might one day be his.

0165m



MercГғВ©dГғВЁs was left alone face to face with the vast plain that had never
seemed so barren, and the sea that had never seemed so vast. Bathed in
tears she wandered about the Catalan village. Sometimes she stood mute
and motionless as a statue, looking towards Marseilles, at other times
gazing on the sea, and debating as to whether it were not better to
cast herself into the abyss of the ocean, and thus end her woes. It was
not want of courage that prevented her putting this resolution into
execution; but her religious feelings came to her aid and saved her.

Caderousse was, like Fernand, enrolled in the army, but, being married
and eight years older, he was merely sent to the frontier. Old DantГғВЁs,
who was only sustained by hope, lost all hope at NapoleonГўВҖВҷs downfall.
Five months after he had been separated from his son, and almost at the
hour of his arrest, he breathed his last in MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ arms. M. Morrel
paid the expenses of his funeral, and a few small debts the poor old
man had contracted.

There was more than benevolence in this action; there was courage; the
south was aflame, and to assist, even on his death-bed, the father of
so dangerous a Bonapartist as DantГғВЁs, was stigmatized as a crime.



 Chapter 14. The Two Prisoners

A year after Louis XVIII.ГўВҖВҷs restoration, a visit was made by the
inspector-general of prisons. DantГғВЁs in his cell heard the noise of
preparation,ГўВҖВ”sounds that at the depth where he lay would have been
inaudible to any but the ear of a prisoner, who could hear the splash
of the drop of water that every hour fell from the roof of his dungeon.
He guessed something uncommon was passing among the living; but he had
so long ceased to have any intercourse with the world, that he looked
upon himself as dead.

The inspector visited, one after another, the cells and dungeons of
several of the prisoners, whose good behavior or stupidity recommended
them to the clemency of the government. He inquired how they were fed,
and if they had any request to make. The universal response was, that
the fare was detestable, and that they wanted to be set free.

The inspector asked if they had anything else to ask for. They shook
their heads. What could they desire beyond their liberty? The inspector
turned smilingly to the governor.

ГўВҖВңI do not know what reason government can assign for these useless
visits; when you see one prisoner, you see all,ГўВҖВ”always the same
thing,ГўВҖВ”ill fed and innocent. Are there any others?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; the dangerous and mad prisoners are in the dungeons.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us visit them,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector with an air of fatigue. ГўВҖВңWe
must play the farce to the end. Let us see the dungeons.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us first send for two soldiers,ГўВҖВқ said the governor. ГўВҖВңThe prisoners
sometimes, through mere uneasiness of life, and in order to be
sentenced to death, commit acts of useless violence, and you might fall
a victim.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake all needful precautions,ГўВҖВқ replied the inspector.

Two soldiers were accordingly sent for, and the inspector descended a
stairway, so foul, so humid, so dark, as to be loathsome to sight,
smell, and respiration.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried the inspector, ГўВҖВңwho can live here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA most dangerous conspirator, a man we are ordered to keep the most
strict watch over, as he is daring and resolute.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is alone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow long has he been there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNearly a year.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas he placed here when he first arrived?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; not until he attempted to kill the turnkey, who took his food to
him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo kill the turnkey?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, the very one who is lighting us. Is it not true, Antoine?ГўВҖВқ asked
the governor.

ГўВҖВңTrue enough; he wanted to kill me!ГўВҖВқ returned the turnkey.

ГўВҖВңHe must be mad,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector.

ГўВҖВңHe is worse than that,ГўВҖВ”he is a devil!ГўВҖВқ returned the turnkey.

ГўВҖВңShall I complain of him?ГўВҖВқ demanded the inspector.

ГўВҖВңOh, no; it is useless. Besides, he is almost mad now, and in another
year he will be quite so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the better for him,ГўВҖВ”he will suffer less,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector.
He was, as this remark shows, a man full of philanthropy, and in every
way fit for his office.

ГўВҖВңYou are right, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the governor; ГўВҖВңand this remark proves
that you have deeply considered the subject. Now we have in a dungeon
about twenty feet distant, and to which you descend by another stair,
an old abbГғВ©, formerly leader of a party in Italy, who has been here
since 1811, and in 1813 he went mad, and the change is astonishing. He
used to weep, he now laughs; he grew thin, he now grows fat. You had
better see him, for his madness is amusing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will see them both,ГўВҖВқ returned the inspector; ГўВҖВңI must conscientiously
perform my duty.ГўВҖВқ

This was the inspectorГўВҖВҷs first visit; he wished to display his
authority.

ГўВҖВңLet us visit this one first,ГўВҖВқ added he.

ГўВҖВңBy all means,ГўВҖВқ replied the governor, and he signed to the turnkey to
open the door. At the sound of the key turning in the lock, and the
creaking of the hinges, DantГғВЁs, who was crouched in a corner of the
dungeon, whence he could see the ray of light that came through a
narrow iron grating above, raised his head. Seeing a stranger, escorted
by two turnkeys holding torches and accompanied by two soldiers, and to
whom the governor spoke bareheaded, DantГғВЁs, who guessed the truth, and
that the moment to address himself to the superior authorities was
come, sprang forward with clasped hands.

The soldiers interposed their bayonets, for they thought that he was
about to attack the inspector, and the latter recoiled two or three
steps. DantГғВЁs saw that he was looked upon as dangerous. Then, infusing
all the humility he possessed into his eyes and voice, he addressed the
inspector, and sought to inspire him with pity.

The inspector listened attentively; then, turning to the governor,
observed, ГўВҖВңHe will become religiousГўВҖВ”he is already more gentle; he is
afraid, and retreated before the bayonetsГўВҖВ”madmen are not afraid of
anything; I made some curious observations on this at Charenton.ГўВҖВқ Then,
turning to the prisoner, ГўВҖВңWhat is it you want?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңI want to know what crime I have committedГўВҖВ”to be tried; and if I am
guilty, to be shot; if innocent, to be set at liberty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you well fed?ГўВҖВқ said the inspector.

ГўВҖВңI believe so; I donГўВҖВҷt know; itГўВҖВҷs of no consequence. What matters
really, not only to me, but to officers of justice and the king, is
that an innocent man should languish in prison, the victim of an
infamous denunciation, to die here cursing his executioners.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are very humble today,ГўВҖВқ remarked the governor; ГўВҖВңyou are not so
always; the other day, for instance, when you tried to kill the
turnkey.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is true, sir, and I beg his pardon, for he has always been very
good to me, but I was mad.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you are not so any longer?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; captivity has subdued meГўВҖВ”I have been here so long.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo long?ГўВҖВ”when were you arrested, then?ГўВҖВқ asked the inspector.

ГўВҖВңThe 28th of February, 1815, at half-past two in the afternoon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңToday is the 30th of July, 1816,ГўВҖВ”why, it is but seventeen months.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnly seventeen months,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңOh, you do not know what is
seventeen months in prison!ГўВҖВ”seventeen ages rather, especially to a man
who, like me, had arrived at the summit of his ambitionГўВҖВ”to a man, who,
like me, was on the point of marrying a woman he adored, who saw an
honorable career opened before him, and who loses all in an instantГўВҖВ”who
sees his prospects destroyed, and is ignorant of the fate of his
affianced wife, and whether his aged father be still living! Seventeen
monthsГўВҖВҷ captivity to a sailor accustomed to the boundless ocean, is a
worse punishment than human crime ever merited. Have pity on me, then,
and ask for me, not intelligence, but a trial; not pardon, but a
verdictГўВҖВ”a trial, sir, I ask only for a trial; that, surely, cannot be
denied to one who is accused!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe shall see,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector; then, turning to the governor, ГўВҖВңOn
my word, the poor devil touches me. You must show me the proofs against
him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; but you will find terrible charges.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ continued DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңI know it is not in your power to
release me; but you can plead for meГўВҖВ”you can have me triedГўВҖВ”and that is
all I ask. Let me know my crime, and the reason why I was condemned.
Uncertainty is worse than all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on with the lights,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңI can tell by your voice you are touched
with pity; tell me at least to hope.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI cannot tell you that,ГўВҖВқ replied the inspector; ГўВҖВңI can only promise to
examine into your case.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I am freeГўВҖВ”then I am saved!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho arrested you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Villefort. See him, and hear what he says.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Villefort is no longer at Marseilles; he is now at Toulouse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am no longer surprised at my detention,ГўВҖВқ murmured DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңsince my
only protector is removed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHad M. de Villefort any cause of personal dislike to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNone; on the contrary, he was very kind to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI can, then, rely on the notes he has left concerning you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEntirely.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is well; wait patiently, then.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs fell on his knees, and prayed earnestly. The door closed; but
this time a fresh inmate was left with DantГғВЁsГўВҖВ”Hope.

0173m



ГўВҖВңWill you see the register at once,ГўВҖВқ asked the governor, ГўВҖВңor proceed to
the other cell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us visit them all,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector. ГўВҖВңIf I once went up those
stairs. I should never have the courage to come down again.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, this one is not like the other, and his madness is less affecting
than this oneГўВҖВҷs display of reason.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is his folly?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe fancies he possesses an immense treasure. The first year he offered
government a million of francs for his release; the second, two; the
third, three; and so on progressively. He is now in his fifth year of
captivity; he will ask to speak to you in private, and offer you five
millions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow curious!ГўВҖВ”what is his name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe AbbГғВ© Faria.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo. 27,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector.

ГўВҖВңIt is here; unlock the door, Antoine.ГўВҖВқ

The turnkey obeyed, and the inspector gazed curiously into the chamber
of the _mad abbГғВ©_, as the prisoner was usually called.

In the centre of the cell, in a circle traced with a fragment of
plaster detached from the wall, sat a man whose tattered garments
scarcely covered him. He was drawing in this circle geometrical lines,
and seemed as much absorbed in his problem as Archimedes was when the
soldier of Marcellus slew him. He did not move at the sound of the
door, and continued his calculations until the flash of the torches
lighted up with an unwonted glare the sombre walls of his cell; then,
raising his head, he perceived with astonishment the number of persons
present. He hastily seized the coverlet of his bed, and wrapped it
round him.

ГўВҖВңWhat is it you want?ГўВҖВқ said the inspector.

ГўВҖВңI, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ© with an air of surprise,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI want
nothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not understand,ГўВҖВқ continued the inspector; ГўВҖВңI am sent here by
government to visit the prison, and hear the requests of the
prisoners.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that is different,ГўВҖВқ cried the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңand we shall understand each
other, I hope.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere, now,ГўВҖВқ whispered the governor, ГўВҖВңit is just as I told you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ continued the prisoner, ГўВҖВңI am the AbbГғВ© Faria, born at Rome.
I was for twenty years Cardinal SpadaГўВҖВҷs secretary; I was arrested, why,
I know not, toward the beginning of the year 1811; since then I have
demanded my liberty from the Italian and French government.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy from the French government?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I was arrested at Piombino, and I presume that, like Milan and
Florence, Piombino has become the capital of some French department.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector, ГўВҖВңyou have not the latest news from Italy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy information dates from the day on which I was arrested,ГўВҖВқ returned
the AbbГғВ© Faria; ГўВҖВңand as the emperor had created the kingdom of Rome for
his infant son, I presume that he has realized the dream of Machiavelli
and CГғВҰsar Borgia, which was to make Italy a united kingdom.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ returned the inspector, ГўВҖВңProvidence has changed this
gigantic plan you advocate so warmly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is the only means of rendering Italy strong, happy, and
independent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery possibly; only I am not come to discuss politics, but to inquire
if you have anything to ask or to complain of.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe food is the same as in other prisons,ГўВҖВ”that is, very bad; the
lodging is very unhealthful, but, on the whole, passable for a dungeon;
but it is not that which I wish to speak of, but a secret I have to
reveal of the greatest importance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are coming to the point,ГўВҖВқ whispered the governor.

ГўВҖВңIt is for that reason I am delighted to see you,ГўВҖВқ continued the abbГғВ©,
ГўВҖВңalthough you have disturbed me in a most important calculation, which,
if it succeeded, would possibly change NewtonГўВҖВҷs system. Could you allow
me a few words in private.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did I tell you?ГўВҖВқ said the governor.

ГўВҖВңYou knew him,ГўВҖВқ returned the inspector with a smile.

ГўВҖВңWhat you ask is impossible, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ continued he, addressing Faria.

0175m



ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңI would speak to you of a large sum, amounting
to five millions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe very sum you named,ГўВҖВқ whispered the inspector in his turn.

ГўВҖВңHowever,ГўВҖВқ continued Faria, seeing that the inspector was about to
depart, ГўВҖВңit is not absolutely necessary for us to be alone; the
governor can be present.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnfortunately,ГўВҖВқ said the governor, ГўВҖВңI know beforehand what you are
about to say; it concerns your treasures, does it not?ГўВҖВқ Faria fixed his
eyes on him with an expression that would have convinced anyone else of
his sanity.

ГўВҖВңOf course,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңof what else should I speak?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMr. Inspector,ГўВҖВқ continued the governor, ГўВҖВңI can tell you the story as
well as he, for it has been dinned in my ears for the last four or five
years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat proves,ГўВҖВқ returned the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңthat you are like those of Holy
Writ, who having eyes see not, and having ears hear not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear sir, the government is rich and does not want your treasures,ГўВҖВқ
replied the inspector; ГўВҖВңkeep them until you are liberated.ГўВҖВқ The abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs
eyes glistened; he seized the inspectorГўВҖВҷs hand.

ГўВҖВңBut what if I am not liberated,ГўВҖВқ cried he, ГўВҖВңand am detained here until
my death? this treasure will be lost. Had not government better profit
by it? I will offer six millions, and I will content myself with the
rest, if they will only give me my liberty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my word,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector in a low tone, ГўВҖВңhad I not been told
beforehand that this man was mad, I should believe what he says.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am not mad,ГўВҖВқ replied Faria, with that acuteness of hearing peculiar
to prisoners. ГўВҖВңThe treasure I speak of really exists, and I offer to
sign an agreement with you, in which I promise to lead you to the spot
where you shall dig; and if I deceive you, bring me here again,ГўВҖВ”I ask
no more.ГўВҖВқ

The governor laughed. ГўВҖВңIs the spot far from here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA hundred leagues.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not ill-planned,ГўВҖВқ said the governor. ГўВҖВңIf all the prisoners took
it into their heads to travel a hundred leagues, and their guardians
consented to accompany them, they would have a capital chance of
escaping.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe scheme is well known,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector; ГўВҖВңand the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs plan
has not even the merit of originality.ГўВҖВқ

Then turning to Faria, ГўВҖВңI inquired if you are well fed?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңSwear to me,ГўВҖВқ replied Faria, ГўВҖВңto free me if what I tell you prove
true, and I will stay here while you go to the spot.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you well fed?ГўВҖВқ repeated the inspector.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur, you run no risk, for, as I told you, I will stay here; so
there is no chance of my escaping.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not reply to my question,ГўВҖВқ replied the inspector impatiently.

ГўВҖВңNor you to mine,ГўВҖВқ cried the abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңYou will not accept my gold; I will
keep it for myself. You refuse me my liberty; God will give it me.ГўВҖВқ And
the abbГғВ©, casting away his coverlet, resumed his place, and continued
his calculations.

0177m



ГўВҖВңWhat is he doing there?ГўВҖВқ said the inspector.

ГўВҖВңCounting his treasures,ГўВҖВқ replied the governor.

Faria replied to this sarcasm with a glance of profound contempt. They
went out. The turnkey closed the door behind them.

ГўВҖВңHe was wealthy once, perhaps?ГўВҖВқ said the inspector.

ГўВҖВңOr dreamed he was, and awoke mad.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAfter all,ГўВҖВқ said the inspector, ГўВҖВңif he had been rich, he would not
have been here.ГўВҖВқ

So the matter ended for the AbbГғВ© Faria. He remained in his cell, and
this visit only increased the belief in his insanity.

Caligula or Nero, those treasure-seekers, those desirers of the
impossible, would have accorded to the poor wretch, in exchange for his
wealth, the liberty he so earnestly prayed for. But the kings of modern
times, restrained by the limits of mere probability, have neither
courage nor desire. They fear the ear that hears their orders, and the
eye that scrutinizes their actions. Formerly they believed themselves
sprung from Jupiter, and shielded by their birth; but nowadays they are
not inviolable.

It has always been against the policy of despotic governments to suffer
the victims of their persecutions to reappear. As the Inquisition
rarely allowed its victims to be seen with their limbs distorted and
their flesh lacerated by torture, so madness is always concealed in its
cell, from whence, should it depart, it is conveyed to some gloomy
hospital, where the doctor has no thought for man or mind in the
mutilated being the jailer delivers to him. The very madness of the
AbbГғВ© Faria, gone mad in prison, condemned him to perpetual captivity.

The inspector kept his word with DantГғВЁs; he examined the register, and
found the following note concerning him:

_Edmond DantГғВЁs:_

Violent Bonapartist; took an active part in the return from Elba.

The greatest watchfulness and care to be exercised.

This note was in a different hand from the rest, which showed that it
had been added since his confinement. The inspector could not contend
against this accusation; he simply wrote, _Nothing to be done._

This visit had infused new vigor into DantГғВЁs; he had, till then,
forgotten the date; but now, with a fragment of plaster, he wrote the
date, 30th July, 1816, and made a mark every day, in order not to lose
his reckoning again. Days and weeks passed away, then monthsГўВҖВ”DantГғВЁs
still waited; he at first expected to be freed in a fortnight. This
fortnight expired, he decided that the inspector would do nothing until
his return to Paris, and that he would not reach there until his
circuit was finished, he therefore fixed three months; three months
passed away, then six more. Finally ten months and a half had gone by
and no favorable change had taken place, and DantГғВЁs began to fancy the
inspectorГўВҖВҷs visit but a dream, an illusion of the brain.

At the expiration of a year the governor was transferred; he had
obtained charge of the fortress at Ham. He took with him several of his
subordinates, and amongst them DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ jailer. A new governor arrived;
it would have been too tedious to acquire the names of the prisoners;
he learned their numbers instead. This horrible place contained fifty
cells; their inhabitants were designated by the numbers of their cell,
and the unhappy young man was no longer called Edmond DantГғВЁsГўВҖВ”he was now
number 34.



 Chapter 15. Number 34 and Number 27

DantГғВЁs passed through all the stages of torture natural to prisoners in
suspense. He was sustained at first by that pride of conscious
innocence which is the sequence to hope; then he began to doubt his own
innocence, which justified in some measure the governorГўВҖВҷs belief in his
mental alienation; and then, relaxing his sentiment of pride, he
addressed his supplications, not to God, but to man. God is always the
last resource. Unfortunates, who ought to begin with God, do not have
any hope in him till they have exhausted all other means of
deliverance.

DantГғВЁs asked to be removed from his present dungeon into another, even
if it were darker and deeper, for a change, however disadvantageous,
was still a change, and would afford him some amusement. He entreated
to be allowed to walk about, to have fresh air, books, and writing
materials. His requests were not granted, but he went on asking all the
same. He accustomed himself to speaking to the new jailer, although the
latter was, if possible, more taciturn than the old one; but still, to
speak to a man, even though mute, was something. DantГғВЁs spoke for the
sake of hearing his own voice; he had tried to speak when alone, but
the sound of his voice terrified him.

Often, before his captivity, DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ mind had revolted at the idea of
assemblages of prisoners, made up of thieves, vagabonds, and murderers.
He now wished to be amongst them, in order to see some other face
besides that of his jailer; he sighed for the galleys, with the
infamous costume, the chain, and the brand on the shoulder. The
galley-slaves breathed the fresh air of heaven, and saw each other.
They were very happy.

He besought the jailer one day to let him have a companion, were it
even the mad abbГғВ©. The jailer, though rough and hardened by the
constant sight of so much suffering, was yet a man. At the bottom of
his heart he had often had a feeling of pity for this unhappy young man
who suffered so; and he laid the request of number 34 before the
governor; but the latter sapiently imagined that DantГғВЁs wished to
conspire or attempt an escape, and refused his request. DantГғВЁs had
exhausted all human resources, and he then turned to God.

All the pious ideas that had been so long forgotten, returned; he
recollected the prayers his mother had taught him, and discovered a new
meaning in every word; for in prosperity prayers seem but a mere medley
of words, until misfortune comes and the unhappy sufferer first
understands the meaning of the sublime language in which he invokes the
pity of heaven! He prayed, and prayed aloud, no longer terrified at the
sound of his own voice, for he fell into a sort of ecstasy. He laid
every action of his life before the Almighty, proposed tasks to
accomplish, and at the end of every prayer introduced the entreaty
oftener addressed to man than to God: ГўВҖВңForgive us our trespasses as we
forgive them that trespass against us.ГўВҖВқ Yet in spite of his earnest
prayers, DantГғВЁs remained a prisoner.

Then gloom settled heavily upon him. DantГғВЁs was a man of great
simplicity of thought, and without education; he could not, therefore,
in the solitude of his dungeon, traverse in mental vision the history
of the ages, bring to life the nations that had perished, and rebuild
the ancient cities so vast and stupendous in the light of the
imagination, and that pass before the eye glowing with celestial colors
in MartinГўВҖВҷs Babylonian pictures. He could not do this, he whose past
life was so short, whose present so melancholy, and his future so
doubtful. Nineteen years of light to reflect upon in eternal darkness!
No distraction could come to his aid; his energetic spirit, that would
have exalted in thus revisiting the past, was imprisoned like an eagle
in a cage. He clung to one ideaГўВҖВ”that of his happiness, destroyed,
without apparent cause, by an unheard-of fatality; he considered and
reconsidered this idea, devoured it (so to speak), as the implacable
Ugolino devours the skull of Archbishop Roger in the Inferno of Dante.

Rage supplanted religious fervor. DantГғВЁs uttered blasphemies that made
his jailer recoil with horror, dashed himself furiously against the
walls of his prison, wreaked his anger upon everything, and chiefly
upon himself, so that the least thing,ГўВҖВ”a grain of sand, a straw, or a
breath of air that annoyed him, led to paroxysms of fury. Then the
letter that Villefort had showed to him recurred to his mind, and every
line gleamed forth in fiery letters on the wall like the _mene, mene,
tekel upharsin_ of Belshazzar. He told himself that it was the enmity
of man, and not the vengeance of Heaven, that had thus plunged him into
the deepest misery. He consigned his unknown persecutors to the most
horrible tortures he could imagine, and found them all insufficient,
because after torture came death, and after death, if not repose, at
least the boon of unconsciousness.

By dint of constantly dwelling on the idea that tranquillity was death,
and if punishment were the end in view other tortures than death must
be invented, he began to reflect on suicide. Unhappy he, who, on the
brink of misfortune, broods over ideas like these!

Before him is a dead sea that stretches in azure calm before the eye;
but he who unwarily ventures within its embrace finds himself
struggling with a monster that would drag him down to perdition. Once
thus ensnared, unless the protecting hand of God snatch him thence, all
is over, and his struggles but tend to hasten his destruction. This
state of mental anguish is, however, less terrible than the sufferings
that precede or the punishment that possibly will follow. There is a
sort of consolation at the contemplation of the yawning abyss, at the
bottom of which lie darkness and obscurity.

Edmond found some solace in these ideas. All his sorrows, all his
sufferings, with their train of gloomy spectres, fled from his cell
when the angel of death seemed about to enter. DantГғВЁs reviewed his past
life with composure, and, looking forward with terror to his future
existence, chose that middle line that seemed to afford him a refuge.

ГўВҖВңSometimes,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңin my voyages, when I was a man and commanded
other men, I have seen the heavens overcast, the sea rage and foam, the
storm arise, and, like a monstrous bird, beating the two horizons with
its wings. Then I felt that my vessel was a vain refuge, that trembled
and shook before the tempest. Soon the fury of the waves and the sight
of the sharp rocks announced the approach of death, and death then
terrified me, and I used all my skill and intelligence as a man and a
sailor to struggle against the wrath of God. But I did so because I was
happy, because I had not courted death, because to be cast upon a bed
of rocks and seaweed seemed terrible, because I was unwilling that I, a
creature made for the service of God, should serve for food to the
gulls and ravens. But now it is different; I have lost all that bound
me to life, death smiles and invites me to repose; I die after my own
manner, I die exhausted and broken-spirited, as I fall asleep when I
have paced three thousand times round my cell,ГўВҖВ”that is thirty thousand
steps, or about ten leagues.ГўВҖВқ

No sooner had this idea taken possession of him than he became more
composed, arranged his couch to the best of his power, ate little and
slept less, and found existence almost supportable, because he felt
that he could throw it off at pleasure, like a worn-out garment. Two
methods of self-destruction were at his disposal. He could hang himself
with his handkerchief to the window bars, or refuse food and die of
starvation. But the first was repugnant to him. DantГғВЁs had always
entertained the greatest horror of pirates, who are hung up to the
yard-arm; he would not die by what seemed an infamous death. He
resolved to adopt the second, and began that day to carry out his
resolve.

0185m



Nearly four years had passed away; at the end of the second he had
ceased to mark the lapse of time. DantГғВЁs said, ГўВҖВңI wish to die,ГўВҖВқ and had
chosen the manner of his death, and fearful of changing his mind, he
had taken an oath to die. ГўВҖВңWhen my morning and evening meals are
brought,ГўВҖВқ thought he, ГўВҖВңI will cast them out of the window, and they
will think that I have eaten them.ГўВҖВқ

He kept his word; twice a day he cast out, through the barred aperture,
the provisions his jailer brought himГўВҖВ”at first gayly, then with
deliberation, and at last with regret. Nothing but the recollection of
his oath gave him strength to proceed. Hunger made viands once
repugnant, now acceptable; he held the plate in his hand for an hour at
a time, and gazed thoughtfully at the morsel of bad meat, of tainted
fish, of black and mouldy bread. It was the last yearning for life
contending with the resolution of despair; then his dungeon seemed less
sombre, his prospects less desperate. He was still youngГўВҖВ”he was only
four or five-and-twentyГўВҖВ”he had nearly fifty years to live. What
unforseen events might not open his prison door, and restore him to
liberty? Then he raised to his lips the repast that, like a voluntary
Tantalus, he refused himself; but he thought of his oath, and he would
not break it. He persisted until, at last, he had not sufficient
strength to rise and cast his supper out of the loophole. The next
morning he could not see or hear; the jailer feared he was dangerously
ill. Edmond hoped he was dying.

Thus the day passed away. Edmond felt a sort of stupor creeping over
him which brought with it a feeling almost of content; the gnawing pain
at his stomach had ceased; his thirst had abated; when he closed his
eyes he saw myriads of lights dancing before them like the
will-oГўВҖВҷ-the-wisps that play about the marshes. It was the twilight of
that mysterious country called Death!

Suddenly, about nine oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening, Edmond heard a hollow
sound in the wall against which he was lying.

So many loathsome animals inhabited the prison, that their noise did
not, in general, awake him; but whether abstinence had quickened his
faculties, or whether the noise was really louder than usual, Edmond
raised his head and listened. It was a continual scratching, as if made
by a huge claw, a powerful tooth, or some iron instrument attacking the
stones.

Although weakened, the young manГўВҖВҷs brain instantly responded to the
idea that haunts all prisonersГўВҖВ”liberty! It seemed to him that heaven
had at length taken pity on him, and had sent this noise to warn him on
the very brink of the abyss. Perhaps one of those beloved ones he had
so often thought of was thinking of him, and striving to diminish the
distance that separated them.

No, no, doubtless he was deceived, and it was but one of those dreams
that forerun death!

Edmond still heard the sound. It lasted nearly three hours; he then
heard a noise of something falling, and all was silent.

Some hours afterwards it began again, nearer and more distinct. Edmond
was intensely interested. Suddenly the jailer entered.

For a week since he had resolved to die, and during the four days that
he had been carrying out his purpose, Edmond had not spoken to the
attendant, had not answered him when he inquired what was the matter
with him, and turned his face to the wall when he looked too curiously
at him; but now the jailer might hear the noise and put an end to it,
and so destroy a ray of something like hope that soothed his last
moments.

The jailer brought him his breakfast. DantГғВЁs raised himself up and
began to talk about everything; about the bad quality of the food,
about the coldness of his dungeon, grumbling and complaining, in order
to have an excuse for speaking louder, and wearying the patience of his
jailer, who out of kindness of heart had brought broth and white bread
for his prisoner.

Fortunately, he fancied that DantГғВЁs was delirious; and placing the food
on the rickety table, he withdrew. Edmond listened, and the sound
became more and more distinct.

ГўВҖВңThere can be no doubt about it,ГўВҖВқ thought he; ГўВҖВңit is some prisoner who
is striving to obtain his freedom. Oh, if I were only there to help
him!ГўВҖВқ

Suddenly another idea took possession of his mind, so used to
misfortune, that it was scarcely capable of hopeГўВҖВ”the idea that the
noise was made by workmen the governor had ordered to repair the
neighboring dungeon.

It was easy to ascertain this; but how could he risk the question? It
was easy to call his jailerГўВҖВҷs attention to the noise, and watch his
countenance as he listened; but might he not by this means destroy
hopes far more important than the short-lived satisfaction of his own
curiosity? Unfortunately, EdmondГўВҖВҷs brain was still so feeble that he
could not bend his thoughts to anything in particular. He saw but one
means of restoring lucidity and clearness to his judgment. He turned
his eyes towards the soup which the jailer had brought, rose, staggered
towards it, raised the vessel to his lips, and drank off the contents
with a feeling of indescribable pleasure.

He had the resolution to stop with this. He had often heard that
shipwrecked persons had died through having eagerly devoured too much
food. Edmond replaced on the table the bread he was about to devour,
and returned to his couchГўВҖВ”he did not wish to die. He soon felt that his
ideas became again collectedГўВҖВ”he could think, and strengthen his
thoughts by reasoning. Then he said to himself:

ГўВҖВңI must put this to the test, but without compromising anybody. If it
is a workman, I need but knock against the wall, and he will cease to
work, in order to find out who is knocking, and why he does so; but as
his occupation is sanctioned by the governor, he will soon resume it.
If, on the contrary, it is a prisoner, the noise I make will alarm him,
he will cease, and not begin again until he thinks everyone is asleep.ГўВҖВқ

Edmond rose again, but this time his legs did not tremble, and his
sight was clear; he went to a corner of his dungeon, detached a stone,
and with it knocked against the wall where the sound came. He struck
thrice.

At the first blow the sound ceased, as if by magic.

Edmond listened intently; an hour passed, two hours passed, and no
sound was heard from the wallГўВҖВ”all was silent there.

Full of hope, Edmond swallowed a few mouthfuls of bread and water, and,
thanks to the vigor of his constitution, found himself well-nigh
recovered.

The day passed away in utter silenceГўВҖВ”night came without recurrence of
the noise.

ГўВҖВңIt is a prisoner,ГўВҖВқ said Edmond joyfully. His brain was on fire, and
life and energy returned.

The night passed in perfect silence. Edmond did not close his eyes.

In the morning the jailer brought him fresh provisionsГўВҖВ”he had already
devoured those of the previous day; he ate these listening anxiously
for the sound, walking round and round his cell, shaking the iron bars
of the loophole, restoring vigor and agility to his limbs by exercise,
and so preparing himself for his future destiny. At intervals he
listened to learn if the noise had not begun again, and grew impatient
at the prudence of the prisoner, who did not guess he had been
disturbed by a captive as anxious for liberty as himself.

Three days passedГўВҖВ”seventy-two long tedious hours which he counted off
by minutes!

At length one evening, as the jailer was visiting him for the last time
that night, DantГғВЁs, with his ear for the hundredth time at the wall,
fancied he heard an almost imperceptible movement among the stones. He
moved away, walked up and down his cell to collect his thoughts, and
then went back and listened.

The matter was no longer doubtful. Something was at work on the other
side of the wall; the prisoner had discovered the danger, and had
substituted a lever for a chisel.

Encouraged by this discovery, Edmond determined to assist the
indefatigable laborer. He began by moving his bed, and looked around
for anything with which he could pierce the wall, penetrate the moist
cement, and displace a stone.

He saw nothing, he had no knife or sharp instrument, the window grating
was of iron, but he had too often assured himself of its solidity. All
his furniture consisted of a bed, a chair, a table, a pail, and a jug.
The bed had iron clamps, but they were screwed to the wood, and it
would have required a screw-driver to take them off. The table and
chair had nothing, the pail had once possessed a handle, but that had
been removed.

0189m



DantГғВЁs had but one resource, which was to break the jug, and with one
of the sharp fragments attack the wall. He let the jug fall on the
floor, and it broke in pieces.

DantГғВЁs concealed two or three of the sharpest fragments in his bed,
leaving the rest on the floor. The breaking of his jug was too natural
an accident to excite suspicion. Edmond had all the night to work in,
but in the darkness he could not do much, and he soon felt that he was
working against something very hard; he pushed back his bed, and waited
for day.

All night he heard the subterranean workman, who continued to mine his
way. Day came, the jailer entered. DantГғВЁs told him that the jug had
fallen from his hands while he was drinking, and the jailer went
grumblingly to fetch another, without giving himself the trouble to
remove the fragments of the broken one. He returned speedily, advised
the prisoner to be more careful, and departed.

DantГғВЁs heard joyfully the key grate in the lock; he listened until the
sound of steps died away, and then, hastily displacing his bed, saw by
the faint light that penetrated into his cell, that he had labored
uselessly the previous evening in attacking the stone instead of
removing the plaster that surrounded it.

The damp had rendered it friable, and DantГғВЁs was able to break it
offГўВҖВ”in small morsels, it is true, but at the end of half an hour he had
scraped off a handful; a mathematician might have calculated that in
two years, supposing that the rock was not encountered, a passage
twenty feet long and two feet broad, might be formed.

The prisoner reproached himself with not having thus employed the hours
he had passed in vain hopes, prayer, and despondency. During the six
years that he had been imprisoned, what might he not have accomplished?

This idea imparted new energy, and in three days he had succeeded, with
the utmost precaution, in removing the cement, and exposing the
stone-work. The wall was built of rough stones, among which, to give
strength to the structure, blocks of hewn stone were at intervals
imbedded. It was one of these he had uncovered, and which he must
remove from its socket.

DantГғВЁs strove to do this with his nails, but they were too weak. The
fragments of the jug broke, and after an hour of useless toil, DantГғВЁs
paused with anguish on his brow.

Was he to be thus stopped at the beginning, and was he to wait inactive
until his fellow workman had completed his task? Suddenly an idea
occurred to himГўВҖВ”he smiled, and the perspiration dried on his forehead.

The jailer always brought DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ soup in an iron saucepan; this
saucepan contained soup for both prisoners, for DantГғВЁs had noticed that
it was either quite full, or half empty, according as the turnkey gave
it to him or to his companion first.

The handle of this saucepan was of iron; DantГғВЁs would have given ten
years of his life in exchange for it.

0191m



The jailer was accustomed to pour the contents of the saucepan into
DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ plate, and DantГғВЁs, after eating his soup with a wooden spoon,
washed the plate, which thus served for every day. Now when evening
came DantГғВЁs put his plate on the ground near the door; the jailer, as
he entered, stepped on it and broke it.

This time he could not blame DantГғВЁs. He was wrong to leave it there,
but the jailer was wrong not to have looked before him. The jailer,
therefore, only grumbled. Then he looked about for something to pour
the soup into; DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ entire dinner service consisted of one
plateГўВҖВ”there was no alternative.

ГўВҖВңLeave the saucepan,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңyou can take it away when you bring
me my breakfast.ГўВҖВқ

This advice was to the jailerГўВҖВҷs taste, as it spared him the necessity
of making another trip. He left the saucepan.

DantГғВЁs was beside himself with joy. He rapidly devoured his food, and
after waiting an hour, lest the jailer should change his mind and
return, he removed his bed, took the handle of the saucepan, inserted
the point between the hewn stone and rough stones of the wall, and
employed it as a lever. A slight oscillation showed DantГғВЁs that all
went well. At the end of an hour the stone was extricated from the
wall, leaving a cavity a foot and a half in diameter.

DantГғВЁs carefully collected the plaster, carried it into the corner of
his cell, and covered it with earth. Then, wishing to make the best use
of his time while he had the means of labor, he continued to work
without ceasing. At the dawn of day he replaced the stone, pushed his
bed against the wall, and lay down. The breakfast consisted of a piece
of bread; the jailer entered and placed the bread on the table.

ГўВҖВңWell, donГўВҖВҷt you intend to bring me another plate?ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied the turnkey; ГўВҖВңyou destroy everything. First you break
your jug, then you make me break your plate; if all the prisoners
followed your example, the government would be ruined. I shall leave
you the saucepan, and pour your soup into that. So for the future I
hope you will not be so destructive.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs raised his eyes to heaven and clasped his hands beneath the
coverlet. He felt more gratitude for the possession of this piece of
iron than he had ever felt for anything. He had noticed, however, that
the prisoner on the other side had ceased to labor; no matter, this was
a greater reason for proceedingГўВҖВ”if his neighbor would not come to him,
he would go to his neighbor. All day he toiled on untiringly, and by
the evening he had succeeded in extracting ten handfuls of plaster and
fragments of stone. When the hour for his jailerГўВҖВҷs visit arrived,
DantГғВЁs straightened the handle of the saucepan as well as he could, and
placed it in its accustomed place. The turnkey poured his ration of
soup into it, together with the fishГўВҖВ”for thrice a week the prisoners
were deprived of meat. This would have been a method of reckoning time,
had not DantГғВЁs long ceased to do so. Having poured out the soup, the
turnkey retired.

DantГғВЁs wished to ascertain whether his neighbor had really ceased to
work. He listenedГўВҖВ”all was silent, as it had been for the last three
days. DantГғВЁs sighed; it was evident that his neighbor distrusted him.
However, he toiled on all the night without being discouraged; but
after two or three hours he encountered an obstacle. The iron made no
impression, but met with a smooth surface; DantГғВЁs touched it, and found
that it was a beam. This beam crossed, or rather blocked up, the hole
DantГғВЁs had made; it was necessary, therefore, to dig above or under it.
The unhappy young man had not thought of this.

ГўВҖВңOh, my God, my God!ГўВҖВқ murmured he, ГўВҖВңI have so earnestly prayed to you,
that I hoped my prayers had been heard. After having deprived me of my
liberty, after having deprived me of death, after having recalled me to
existence, my God, have pity on me, and do not let me die in despair!ГўВҖВқ

0193m



ГўВҖВңWho talks of God and despair at the same time?ГўВҖВқ said a voice that
seemed to come from beneath the earth, and, deadened by the distance,
sounded hollow and sepulchral in the young manГўВҖВҷs ears. EdmondГўВҖВҷs hair
stood on end, and he rose to his knees.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI hear a human voice.ГўВҖВқ Edmond had not heard anyone
speak save his jailer for four or five years; and a jailer is no man to
a prisonerГўВҖВ”he is a living door, a barrier of flesh and blood adding
strength to restraints of oak and iron.

ГўВҖВңIn the name of Heaven,ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңspeak again, though the sound
of your voice terrifies me. Who are you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho are you?ГўВҖВқ said the voice.

ГўВҖВңAn unhappy prisoner,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, who made no hesitation in
answering.

ГўВҖВңOf what country?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA Frenchman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEdmond DantГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour profession?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA sailor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow long have you been here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSince the 28th of February, 1815.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour crime?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am innocent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut of what are you accused?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf having conspired to aid the emperorГўВҖВҷs return.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat! For the emperorГўВҖВҷs return?ГўВҖВ”the emperor is no longer on the
throne, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe abdicated at Fontainebleau in 1814, and was sent to the Island of
Elba. But how long have you been here that you are ignorant of all
this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSince 1811.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs shuddered; this man had been four years longer than himself in
prison.

ГўВҖВңDo not dig any more,ГўВҖВқ said the voice; ГўВҖВңonly tell me how high up is
your excavation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn a level with the floor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow is it concealed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBehind my bed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas your bed been moved since you have been a prisoner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat does your chamber open on?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA corridor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the corridor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn a court.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas!ГўВҖВқ murmured the voice.

ГўВҖВңOh, what is the matter?ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңI have made a mistake owing to an error in my plans. I took the wrong
angle, and have come out fifteen feet from where I intended. I took the
wall you are mining for the outer wall of the fortress.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut then you would be close to the sea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is what I hoped.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd supposing you had succeeded?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should have thrown myself into the sea, gained one of the islands
near hereГўВҖВ”the Isle de Daume or the Isle de TiboulenГўВҖВ”and then I should
have been safe.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCould you have swum so far?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHeaven would have given me strength; but now all is lost.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; stop up your excavation carefully, do not work any more, and wait
until you hear from me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me, at least, who you are?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI amГўВҖВ”I am No. 27.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou mistrust me, then,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs. Edmond fancied he heard a bitter
laugh resounding from the depths.

ГўВҖВңOh, I am a Christian,ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, guessing instinctively that this
man meant to abandon him. ГўВҖВңI swear to you by him who died for us that
naught shall induce me to breathe one syllable to my jailers; but I
conjure you do not abandon me. If you do, I swear to you, for I have
got to the end of my strength, that I will dash my brains out against
the wall, and you will have my death to reproach yourself with.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow old are you? Your voice is that of a young man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know my age, for I have not counted the years I have been
here. All I do know is, that I was just nineteen when I was arrested,
the 28th of February, 1815.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot quite twenty-six!ГўВҖВқ murmured the voice; ГўВҖВңat that age he cannot be a
traitor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, no,ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңI swear to you again, rather than betray
you, I would allow myself to be hacked in pieces!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have done well to speak to me, and ask for my assistance, for I
was about to form another plan, and leave you; but your age reassures
me. I will not forget you. Wait.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow long?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI must calculate our chances; I will give you the signal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you will not leave me; you will come to me, or you will let me
come to you. We will escape, and if we cannot escape we will talk; you
of those whom you love, and I of those whom I love. You must love
somebody?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I am alone in the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you will love me. If you are young, I will be your comrade; if
you are old, I will be your son. I have a father who is seventy if he
yet lives; I only love him and a young girl called MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. My father
has not yet forgotten me, I am sure, but God alone knows if she loves
me still; I shall love you as I loved my father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is well,ГўВҖВқ returned the voice; ГўВҖВңtomorrow.ГўВҖВқ

These few words were uttered with an accent that left no doubt of his
sincerity; DantГғВЁs rose, dispersed the fragments with the same
precaution as before, and pushed his bed back against the wall. He then
gave himself up to his happiness. He would no longer be alone. He was,
perhaps, about to regain his liberty; at the worst, he would have a
companion, and captivity that is shared is but half captivity. Plaints
made in common are almost prayers, and prayers where two or three are
gathered together invoke the mercy of heaven.

All day DantГғВЁs walked up and down his cell. He sat down occasionally on
his bed, pressing his hand on his heart. At the slightest noise he
bounded towards the door. Once or twice the thought crossed his mind
that he might be separated from this unknown, whom he loved already;
and then his mind was made upГўВҖВ”when the jailer moved his bed and stooped
to examine the opening, he would kill him with his water jug. He would
be condemned to die, but he was about to die of grief and despair when
this miraculous noise recalled him to life.

The jailer came in the evening. DantГғВЁs was on his bed. It seemed to him
that thus he better guarded the unfinished opening. Doubtless there was
a strange expression in his eyes, for the jailer said, ГўВҖВңCome, are you
going mad again?ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs did not answer; he feared that the emotion of his voice would
betray him. The jailer went away shaking his head. Night came; DantГғВЁs
hoped that his neighbor would profit by the silence to address him, but
he was mistaken. The next morning, however, just as he removed his bed
from the wall, he heard three knocks; he threw himself on his knees.

ГўВҖВңIs it you?ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңI am here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs your jailer gone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңhe will not return until the evening; so that we
have twelve hours before us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI can work, then?ГўВҖВқ said the voice.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, yes; this instant, I entreat you.ГўВҖВқ

In a moment that part of the floor on which DantГғВЁs was resting his two
hands, as he knelt with his head in the opening, suddenly gave way; he
drew back smartly, while a mass of stones and earth disappeared in a
hole that opened beneath the aperture he himself had formed. Then from
the bottom of this passage, the depth of which it was impossible to
measure, he saw appear, first the head, then the shoulders, and lastly
the body of a man, who sprang lightly into his cell.

0197m




 Chapter 16. A Learned Italian

Seizing in his arms the friend so long and ardently desired, DantГғВЁs
almost carried him towards the window, in order to obtain a better view
of his features by the aid of the imperfect light that struggled
through the grating.

He was a man of small stature, with hair blanched rather by suffering
and sorrow than by age. He had a deep-set, penetrating eye, almost
buried beneath the thick gray eyebrow, and a long (and still black)
beard reaching down to his breast. His thin face, deeply furrowed by
care, and the bold outline of his strongly marked features, betokened a
man more accustomed to exercise his mental faculties than his physical
strength. Large drops of perspiration were now standing on his brow,
while the garments that hung about him were so ragged that one could
only guess at the pattern upon which they had originally been
fashioned.

The stranger might have numbered sixty or sixty-five years; but a
certain briskness and appearance of vigor in his movements made it
probable that he was aged more from captivity than the course of time.
He received the enthusiastic greeting of his young acquaintance with
evident pleasure, as though his chilled affections were rekindled and
invigorated by his contact with one so warm and ardent. He thanked him
with grateful cordiality for his kindly welcome, although he must at
that moment have been suffering bitterly to find another dungeon where
he had fondly reckoned on discovering a means of regaining his liberty.

ГўВҖВңLet us first see,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwhether it is possible to remove the
traces of my entrance hereГўВҖВ”our future tranquillity depends upon our
jailers being entirely ignorant of it.ГўВҖВқ

Advancing to the opening, he stooped and raised the stone easily in
spite of its weight; then, fitting it into its place, he said:

ГўВҖВңYou removed this stone very carelessly; but I suppose you had no tools
to aid you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs, with astonishment, ГўВҖВңdo you possess any?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI made myself some; and with the exception of a file, I have all that
are necessary,ГўВҖВ”a chisel, pincers, and lever.ГўВҖВқ

0201m



ГўВҖВңOh, how I should like to see these products of your industry and
patience.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, in the first place, here is my chisel.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, he displayed a sharp strong blade, with a handle made of
beechwood.

ГўВҖВңAnd with what did you contrive to make that?ГўВҖВқ inquired DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWith one of the clamps of my bedstead; and this very tool has sufficed
me to hollow out the road by which I came hither, a distance of about
fifty feet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFifty feet!ГўВҖВқ responded DantГғВЁs, almost terrified.

ГўВҖВңDo not speak so loud, young manГўВҖВ”donГўВҖВҷt speak so loud. It frequently
occurs in a state prison like this, that persons are stationed outside
the doors of the cells purposely to overhear the conversation of the
prisoners.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut they believe I am shut up alone here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat makes no difference.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you say that you dug your way a distance of fifty feet to get
here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do; that is about the distance that separates your chamber from
mine; only, unfortunately, I did not curve aright; for want of the
necessary geometrical instruments to calculate my scale of proportion,
instead of taking an ellipsis of forty feet, I made it fifty. I
expected, as I told you, to reach the outer wall, pierce through it,
and throw myself into the sea; I have, however, kept along the corridor
on which your chamber opens, instead of going beneath it. My labor is
all in vain, for I find that the corridor looks into a courtyard filled
with soldiers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs true,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңbut the corridor you speak of only bounds
_one_ side of my cell; there are three othersГўВҖВ”do you know anything of
their situation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis one is built against the solid rock, and it would take ten
experienced miners, duly furnished with the requisite tools, as many
years to perforate it. This adjoins the lower part of the governorГўВҖВҷs
apartments, and were we to work our way through, we should only get
into some lock-up cellars, where we must necessarily be recaptured. The
fourth and last side of your cell faces onГўВҖВ”faces onГўВҖВ”stop a minute, now
where does it face?ГўВҖВқ

The wall of which he spoke was the one in which was fixed the loophole
by which light was admitted to the chamber. This loophole, which
gradually diminished in size as it approached the outside, to an
opening through which a child could not have passed, was, for better
security, furnished with three iron bars, so as to quiet all
apprehensions even in the mind of the most suspicious jailer as to the
possibility of a prisonerГўВҖВҷs escape. As the stranger asked the question,
he dragged the table beneath the window.

ГўВҖВңClimb up,ГўВҖВқ said he to DantГғВЁs.

The young man obeyed, mounted on the table, and, divining the wishes of
his companion, placed his back securely against the wall and held out
both hands. The stranger, whom as yet DantГғВЁs knew only by the number of
his cell, sprang up with an agility by no means to be expected in a
person of his years, and, light and steady on his feet as a cat or a
lizard, climbed from the table to the outstretched hands of DantГғВЁs, and
from them to his shoulders; then, bending double, for the ceiling of
the dungeon prevented him from holding himself erect, he managed to
slip his head between the upper bars of the window, so as to be able to
command a perfect view from top to bottom.

An instant afterwards he hastily drew back his head, saying, ГўВҖВңI thought
so!ГўВҖВқ and sliding from the shoulders of DantГғВЁs as dextrously as he had
ascended, he nimbly leaped from the table to the ground.

ГўВҖВңWhat was it that you thought?ГўВҖВқ asked the young man anxiously, in his
turn descending from the table.

The elder prisoner pondered the matter. ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said he at length, ГўВҖВңit
is so. This side of your chamber looks out upon a kind of open gallery,
where patrols are continually passing, and sentries keep watch day and
night.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you quite sure of that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertain. I saw the soldierГўВҖВҷs shape and the top of his musket; that
made me draw in my head so quickly, for I was fearful he might also see
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ inquired DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңYou perceive then the utter impossibility of escaping through your
dungeon?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThenГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ pursued the young man eagerly.

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ answered the elder prisoner, ГўВҖВңthe will of God be done!ГўВҖВқ And as
the old man slowly pronounced those words, an air of profound
resignation spread itself over his careworn countenance. DantГғВЁs gazed
on the man who could thus philosophically resign hopes so long and
ardently nourished with an astonishment mingled with admiration.

ГўВҖВңTell me, I entreat of you, who and what you are?ГўВҖВқ said he at length.
ГўВҖВңNever have I met with so remarkable a person as yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWillingly,ГўВҖВқ answered the stranger; ГўВҖВңif, indeed, you feel any curiosity
respecting one, now, alas, powerless to aid you in any way.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay not so; you can console and support me by the strength of your own
powerful mind. Pray let me know who you really are?ГўВҖВқ

The stranger smiled a melancholy smile. ГўВҖВңThen listen,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңI am
the AbbГғВ© Faria, and have been imprisoned as you know in this ChГғВўteau
dГўВҖВҷIf since the year 1811; previously to which I had been confined for
three years in the fortress of Fenestrelle. In the year 1811 I was
transferred to Piedmont in France. It was at this period I learned that
the destiny which seemed subservient to every wish formed by Napoleon,
had bestowed on him a son, named king of Rome even in his cradle. I was
very far then from expecting the change you have just informed me of;
namely, that four years afterwards, this colossus of power would be
overthrown. Then who reigns in France at this momentГўВҖВ”Napoleon II.?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, Louis XVIII.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe brother of Louis XVI.! How inscrutable are the ways of
ProvidenceГўВҖВ”for what great and mysterious purpose has it pleased Heaven
to abase the man once so elevated, and raise up him who was so abased?ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ whole attention was riveted on a man who could thus forget his
own misfortunes while occupying himself with the destinies of others.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ continued he, ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTwill be the same as it was in England.
After Charles I., Cromwell; after Cromwell, Charles II., and then James
II., and then some son-in-law or relation, some Prince of Orange, a
stadtholder who becomes a king. Then new concessions to the people,
then a constitution, then liberty. Ah, my friend!ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©,
turning towards DantГғВЁs, and surveying him with the kindling gaze of a
prophet, ГўВҖВңyou are young, you will see all this come to pass.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProbably, if ever I get out of prison!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ replied Faria, ГўВҖВңwe are prisoners; but I forget this sometimes,
and there are even moments when my mental vision transports me beyond
these walls, and I fancy myself at liberty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut wherefore are you here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause in 1807 I dreamed of the very plan Napoleon tried to realize
in 1811; because, like Machiavelli, I desired to alter the political
face of Italy, and instead of allowing it to be split up into a
quantity of petty principalities, each held by some weak or tyrannical
ruler, I sought to form one large, compact, and powerful empire; and,
lastly, because I fancied I had found my CГғВҰsar Borgia in a crowned
simpleton, who feigned to enter into my views only to betray me. It was
the plan of Alexander VI. and Clement VII., but it will never succeed
now, for they attempted it fruitlessly, and Napoleon was unable to
complete his work. Italy seems fated to misfortune.ГўВҖВқ And the old man
bowed his head.

DantГғВЁs could not understand a man risking his life for such matters.
Napoleon certainly he knew something of, inasmuch as he had seen and
spoken with him; but of Clement VII. and Alexander VI. he knew nothing.

ГўВҖВңAre you not,ГўВҖВқ he asked, ГўВҖВңthe priest who here in the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf is
generally thought to beГўВҖВ”ill?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMad, you mean, donГўВҖВҷt you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did not like to say so,ГўВҖВқ answered DantГғВЁs, smiling.

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ resumed Faria with a bitter smile, ГўВҖВңlet me answer your
question in full, by acknowledging that I am the poor mad prisoner of
the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, for many years permitted to amuse the different
visitors with what is said to be my insanity; and, in all probability,
I should be promoted to the honor of making sport for the children, if
such innocent beings could be found in an abode devoted like this to
suffering and despair.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs remained for a short time mute and motionless; at length he
said:

ГўВҖВңThen you abandon all hope of escape?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI perceive its utter impossibility; and I consider it impious to
attempt that which the Almighty evidently does not approve.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, be not discouraged. Would it not be expecting too much to hope to
succeed at your first attempt? Why not try to find an opening in
another direction from that which has so unfortunately failed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, it shows how little notion you can have of all it has cost me to
effect a purpose so unexpectedly frustrated, that you talk of beginning
over again. In the first place, I was four years making the tools I
possess, and have been two years scraping and digging out earth, hard
as granite itself; then what toil and fatigue has it not been to remove
huge stones I should once have deemed impossible to loosen. Whole days
have I passed in these Titanic efforts, considering my labor well
repaid if, by night-time I had contrived to carry away a square inch of
this hard-bound cement, changed by ages into a substance unyielding as
the stones themselves; then to conceal the mass of earth and rubbish I
dug up, I was compelled to break through a staircase, and throw the
fruits of my labor into the hollow part of it; but the well is now so
completely choked up, that I scarcely think it would be possible to add
another handful of dust without leading to discovery. Consider also
that I fully believed I had accomplished the end and aim of my
undertaking, for which I had so exactly husbanded my strength as to
make it just hold out to the termination of my enterprise; and now, at
the moment when I reckoned upon success, my hopes are forever dashed
from me. No, I repeat again, that nothing shall induce me to renew
attempts evidently at variance with the AlmightyГўВҖВҷs pleasure.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs held down his head, that the other might not see how joy at the
thought of having a companion outweighed the sympathy he felt for the
failure of the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs plans.

The abbГғВ© sank upon EdmondГўВҖВҷs bed, while Edmond himself remained
standing. Escape had never once occurred to him. There are, indeed,
some things which appear so impossible that the mind does not dwell on
them for an instant. To undermine the ground for fifty feetГўВҖВ”to devote
three years to a labor which, if successful, would conduct you to a
precipice overhanging the seaГўВҖВ”to plunge into the waves from the height
of fifty, sixty, perhaps a hundred feet, at the risk of being dashed to
pieces against the rocks, should you have been fortunate enough to have
escaped the fire of the sentinels; and even, supposing all these perils
past, then to have to swim for your life a distance of at least three
miles ere you could reach the shoreГўВҖВ”were difficulties so startling and
formidable that DantГғВЁs had never even dreamed of such a scheme,
resigning himself rather to death.

But the sight of an old man clinging to life with so desperate a
courage, gave a fresh turn to his ideas, and inspired him with new
courage. Another, older and less strong than he, had attempted what he
had not had sufficient resolution to undertake, and had failed only
because of an error in calculation. This same person, with almost
incredible patience and perseverance, had contrived to provide himself
with tools requisite for so unparalleled an attempt. Another had done
all this; why, then, was it impossible to DantГғВЁs? Faria had dug his way
through fifty feet, DantГғВЁs would dig a hundred; Faria, at the age of
fifty, had devoted three years to the task; he, who was but half as
old, would sacrifice six; Faria, a priest and savant, had not shrunk
from the idea of risking his life by trying to swim a distance of three
miles to one of the islandsГўВҖВ”Daume, Rattonneau, or Lemaire; should a
hardy sailor, an experienced diver, like himself, shrink from a similar
task; should he, who had so often for mere amusementГўВҖВҷs sake plunged to
the bottom of the sea to fetch up the bright coral branch, hesitate to
entertain the same project? He could do it in an hour, and how many
times had he, for pure pastime, continued in the water for more than
twice as long! At once DantГғВЁs resolved to follow the brave example of
his energetic companion, and to remember that what has once been done
may be done again.

After continuing some time in profound meditation, the young man
suddenly exclaimed, ГўВҖВңI have found what you were in search of!ГўВҖВқ

Faria started: ГўВҖВңHave you, indeed?ГўВҖВқ cried he, raising his head with
quick anxiety; ГўВҖВңpray, let me know what it is you have discovered?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe corridor through which you have bored your way from the cell you
occupy here, extends in the same direction as the outer gallery, does
it not?ГўВҖВқ

0207m



ГўВҖВңIt does.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd is not above fifteen feet from it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbout that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, I will tell you what we must do. We must pierce through
the corridor by forming a side opening about the middle, as it were the
top part of a cross. This time you will lay your plans more accurately;
we shall get out into the gallery you have described; kill the sentinel
who guards it, and make our escape. All we require to insure success is
courage, and that you possess, and strength, which I am not deficient
in; as for patience, you have abundantly proved yoursГўВҖВ”you shall now see
me prove mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne instant, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңit is clear you do
not understand the nature of the courage with which I am endowed, and
what use I intend making of my strength. As for patience, I consider
that I have abundantly exercised that in beginning every morning the
task of the night before, and every night renewing the task of the day.
But then, young man (and I pray of you to give me your full attention),
then I thought I could not be doing anything displeasing to the
Almighty in trying to set an innocent being at libertyГўВҖВ”one who had
committed no offence, and merited not condemnation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd have your notions changed?ГўВҖВқ asked DantГғВЁs with much surprise; ГўВҖВңdo
you think yourself more guilty in making the attempt since you have
encountered me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; neither do I wish to incur guilt. Hitherto I have fancied myself
merely waging war against circumstances, not men. I have thought it no
sin to bore through a wall, or destroy a staircase; but I cannot so
easily persuade myself to pierce a heart or take away a life.ГўВҖВқ

A slight movement of surprise escaped DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңIs it possible,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthat where your liberty is at stake you can
allow any such scruple to deter you from obtaining it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me,ГўВҖВқ replied Faria, ГўВҖВңwhat has hindered you from knocking down
your jailer with a piece of wood torn from your bedstead, dressing
yourself in his clothes, and endeavoring to escape?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSimply the fact that the idea never occurred to me,ГўВҖВқ answered DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңBecause,ГўВҖВқ said the old man, ГўВҖВңthe natural repugnance to the commission
of such a crime prevented you from thinking of it; and so it ever is
because in simple and allowable things our natural instincts keep us
from deviating from the strict line of duty. The tiger, whose nature
teaches him to delight in shedding blood, needs but the sense of smell
to show him when his prey is within his reach, and by following this
instinct he is enabled to measure the leap necessary to permit him to
spring on his victim; but man, on the contrary, loathes the idea of
bloodГўВҖВ”it is not alone that the laws of social life inspire him with a
shrinking dread of taking life; his natural construction and
physiological formationГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs was confused and silent at this explanation of the thoughts
which had unconsciously been working in his mind, or rather soul; for
there are two distinct sorts of ideas, those that proceed from the head
and those that emanate from the heart.

0209m



ГўВҖВңSince my imprisonment,ГўВҖВқ said Faria, ГўВҖВңI have thought over all the most
celebrated cases of escape on record. They have rarely been successful.
Those that have been crowned with full success have been long meditated
upon, and carefully arranged; such, for instance, as the escape of the
Duc de Beaufort from the ChГғВўteau de Vincennes, that of the AbbГғВ©
Dubuquoi from For lГўВҖВҷEvГғВӘque; of Latude from the Bastille. Then there are
those for which chance sometimes affords opportunity, and those are the
best of all. Let us, therefore, wait patiently for some favorable
moment, and when it presents itself, profit by it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңyou might well endure the tedious delay; you were
constantly employed in the task you set yourself, and when weary with
toil, you had your hopes to refresh and encourage you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI assure you,ГўВҖВқ replied the old man, ГўВҖВңI did not turn to that source for
recreation or support.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did you do then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI wrote or studied.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWere you then permitted the use of pens, ink, and paper?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ answered the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңI had none but what I made for myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou made paper, pens and ink?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs gazed with admiration, but he had some difficulty in believing.
Faria saw this.

ГўВҖВңWhen you pay me a visit in my cell, my young friend,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI will
show you an entire work, the fruits of the thoughts and reflections of
my whole life; many of them meditated over in the shades of the
Colosseum at Rome, at the foot of St. MarkГўВҖВҷs column at Venice, and on
the borders of the Arno at Florence, little imagining at the time that
they would be arranged in order within the walls of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf.
The work I speak of is called _A Treatise on the Possibility of a
General Monarchy in Italy_, and will make one large quarto volume.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd on what have you written all this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn two of my shirts. I invented a preparation that makes linen as
smooth and as easy to write on as parchment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are, then, a chemist?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSomewhat; I know Lavoisier, and was the intimate friend of Cabanis.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut for such a work you must have needed booksГўВҖВ”had you any?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI had nearly five thousand volumes in my library at Rome; but after
reading them over many times, I found out that with one hundred and
fifty well-chosen books a man possesses, if not a complete summary of
all human knowledge, at least all that a man need really know. I
devoted three years of my life to reading and studying these one
hundred and fifty volumes, till I knew them nearly by heart; so that
since I have been in prison, a very slight effort of memory has enabled
me to recall their contents as readily as though the pages were open
before me. I could recite you the whole of Thucydides, Xenophon,
Plutarch, Titus Livius, Tacitus, Strada, Jornandes, Dante, Montaigne,
Shakespeare, Spinoza, Machiavelli, and Bossuet. I name only the most
important.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are, doubtless, acquainted with a variety of languages, so as to
have been able to read all these?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I speak five of the modern tonguesГўВҖВ”that is to say, German,
French, Italian, English, and Spanish; by the aid of ancient Greek I
learned modern GreekГўВҖВ”I donГўВҖВҷt speak it so well as I could wish, but I am
still trying to improve myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImprove yourself!ГўВҖВқ repeated DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңwhy, how can you manage to do
so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, I made a vocabulary of the words I knew; turned, returned, and
arranged them, so as to enable me to express my thoughts through their
medium. I know nearly one thousand words, which is all that is
absolutely necessary, although I believe there are nearly one hundred
thousand in the dictionaries. I cannot hope to be very fluent, but I
certainly should have no difficulty in explaining my wants and wishes;
and that would be quite as much as I should ever require.ГўВҖВқ

Stronger grew the wonder of DantГғВЁs, who almost fancied he had to do
with one gifted with supernatural powers; still hoping to find some
imperfection which might bring him down to a level with human beings,
he added, ГўВҖВңThen if you were not furnished with pens, how did you manage
to write the work you speak of?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI made myself some excellent ones, which would be universally
preferred to all others if once known. You are aware what huge whitings
are served to us on _maigre_ days. Well, I selected the cartilages of
the heads of these fishes, and you can scarcely imagine the delight
with which I welcomed the arrival of each Wednesday, Friday, and
Saturday, as affording me the means of increasing my stock of pens; for
I will freely confess that my historical labors have been my greatest
solace and relief. While retracing the past, I forget the present; and
traversing at will the path of history I cease to remember that I am
myself a prisoner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the ink,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңof what did you make your ink?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere was formerly a fireplace in my dungeon,ГўВҖВқ replied Faria, ГўВҖВңbut it
was closed up long ere I became an occupant of this prison. Still, it
must have been many years in use, for it was thickly covered with a
coating of soot; this soot I dissolved in a portion of the wine brought
to me every Sunday, and I assure you a better ink cannot be desired.
For very important notes, for which closer attention is required, I
pricked one of my fingers, and wrote with my own blood.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd when,ГўВҖВқ asked DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңmay I see all this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhenever you please,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңOh, then let it be directly!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young man.

ГўВҖВңFollow me, then,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, as he re-entered the subterranean
passage, in which he soon disappeared, followed by DantГғВЁs.



 Chapter 17. The AbbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs Chamber

After having passed with tolerable ease through the subterranean
passage, which, however, did not admit of their holding themselves
erect, the two friends reached the further end of the corridor, into
which the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs cell opened; from that point the passage became much
narrower, and barely permitted one to creep through on hands and knees.
The floor of the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs cell was paved, and it had been by raising one
of the stones in the most obscure corner that Faria had been able to
commence the laborious task of which DantГғВЁs had witnessed the
completion.

As he entered the chamber of his friend, DantГғВЁs cast around one eager
and searching glance in quest of the expected marvels, but nothing more
than common met his view.

ГўВҖВңIt is well,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңwe have some hours before usГўВҖВ”it is now
just a quarter past twelve oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ Instinctively DantГғВЁs turned round
to observe by what watch or clock the abbГғВ© had been able so accurately
to specify the hour.

ГўВҖВңLook at this ray of light which enters by my window,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©,
ГўВҖВңand then observe the lines traced on the wall. Well, by means of these
lines, which are in accordance with the double motion of the earth, and
the ellipse it describes round the sun, I am enabled to ascertain the
precise hour with more minuteness than if I possessed a watch; for that
might be broken or deranged in its movements, while the sun and earth
never vary in their appointed paths.ГўВҖВқ

This last explanation was wholly lost upon DantГғВЁs, who had always
imagined, from seeing the sun rise from behind the mountains and set in
the Mediterranean, that it moved, and not the earth. A double movement
of the globe he inhabited, and of which he could feel nothing, appeared
to him perfectly impossible. Each word that fell from his companionГўВҖВҷs
lips seemed fraught with the mysteries of science, as worthy of digging
out as the gold and diamonds in the mines of Guzerat and Golconda,
which he could just recollect having visited during a voyage made in
his earliest youth.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said he to the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңI am anxious to see your treasures.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© smiled, and, proceeding to the disused fireplace, raised, by
the help of his chisel, a long stone, which had doubtless been the
hearth, beneath which was a cavity of considerable depth, serving as a
safe depository of the articles mentioned to DantГғВЁs.

0213m



ГўВҖВңWhat do you wish to see first?ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңOh, your great work on the monarchy of Italy!ГўВҖВқ

Faria then drew forth from his hiding-place three or four rolls of
linen, laid one over the other, like folds of papyrus. These rolls
consisted of slips of cloth about four inches wide and eighteen long;
they were all carefully numbered and closely covered with writing, so
legible that DantГғВЁs could easily read it, as well as make out the
senseГўВҖВ”it being in Italian, a language he, as a ProvenГғВ§al, perfectly
understood.

ГўВҖВңThere,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthere is the work complete. I wrote the word _finis_
at the end of the sixty-eighth strip about a week ago. I have torn up
two of my shirts, and as many handkerchiefs as I was master of, to
complete the precious pages. Should I ever get out of prison and find
in all Italy a printer courageous enough to publish what I have
composed, my literary reputation is forever secured.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI see,ГўВҖВқ answered DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңNow let me behold the curious pens with
which you have written your work.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLook!ГўВҖВқ said Faria, showing to the young man a slender stick about six
inches long, and much resembling the size of the handle of a fine
painting-brush, to the end of which was tied, by a piece of thread, one
of those cartilages of which the abbГғВ© had before spoken to DantГғВЁs; it
was pointed, and divided at the nib like an ordinary pen. DantГғВЁs
examined it with intense admiration, then looked around to see the
instrument with which it had been shaped so correctly into form.

ГўВҖВңAh, yes,ГўВҖВқ said Faria; ГўВҖВңthe penknife. ThatГўВҖВҷs my masterpiece. I made it,
as well as this larger knife, out of an old iron candlestick.ГўВҖВқ The
penknife was sharp and keen as a razor; as for the other knife, it
would serve a double purpose, and with it one could cut and thrust.

DantГғВЁs examined the various articles shown to him with the same
attention that he had bestowed on the curiosities and strange tools
exhibited in the shops at Marseilles as the works of the savages in the
South Seas from whence they had been brought by the different trading
vessels.

ГўВҖВңAs for the ink,ГўВҖВқ said Faria, ГўВҖВңI told you how I managed to obtain
thatГўВҖВ”and I only just make it from time to time, as I require it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne thing still puzzles me,ГўВҖВқ observed DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңand that is how you
managed to do all this by daylight?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI worked at night also,ГўВҖВқ replied Faria.

ГўВҖВңNight!ГўВҖВ”why, for HeavenГўВҖВҷs sake, are your eyes like catsГўВҖВҷ, that you can
see to work in the dark?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed they are not; but God has supplied man with the intelligence
that enables him to overcome the limitations of natural conditions. I
furnished myself with a light.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou did? Pray tell me how.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI separated the fat from the meat served to me, melted it, and so made
oilГўВҖВ”here is my lamp.ГўВҖВқ So saying, the abbГғВ© exhibited a sort of torch
very similar to those used in public illuminations.

ГўВҖВңBut how do you procure a light?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, here are two flints and a piece of burnt linen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd matches?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI pretended that I had a disorder of the skin, and asked for a little
sulphur, which was readily supplied.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs laid the different things he had been looking at on the table,
and stood with his head drooping on his breast, as though overwhelmed
by the perseverance and strength of FariaГўВҖВҷs mind.

0215m



ГўВҖВңYou have not seen all yet,ГўВҖВқ continued Faria, ГўВҖВңfor I did not think it
wise to trust all my treasures in the same hiding-place. Let us shut
this one up.ГўВҖВқ They put the stone back in its place; the abbГғВ© sprinkled
a little dust over it to conceal the traces of its having been removed,
rubbed his foot well on it to make it assume the same appearance as the
other, and then, going towards his bed, he removed it from the spot it
stood in. Behind the head of the bed, and concealed by a stone fitting
in so closely as to defy all suspicion, was a hollow space, and in this
space a ladder of cords between twenty-five and thirty feet in length.
DantГғВЁs closely and eagerly examined it; he found it firm, solid, and
compact enough to bear any weight.

ГўВҖВңWho supplied you with the materials for making this wonderful work?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI tore up several of my shirts, and ripped out the seams in the sheets
of my bed, during my three yearsГўВҖВҷ imprisonment at Fenestrelle; and when
I was removed to the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, I managed to bring the ravellings
with me, so that I have been able to finish my work here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd was it not discovered that your sheets were unhemmed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, for when I had taken out the thread I required, I hemmed the
edges over again.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith this needle,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, as, opening his ragged vestments, he
showed DantГғВЁs a long, sharp fish-bone, with a small perforated eye for
the thread, a small portion of which still remained in it.

ГўВҖВңI once thought,ГўВҖВқ continued Faria, ГўВҖВңof removing these iron bars, and
letting myself down from the window, which, as you see, is somewhat
wider than yours, although I should have enlarged it still more
preparatory to my flight; however, I discovered that I should merely
have dropped into a sort of inner court, and I therefore renounced the
project altogether as too full of risk and danger. Nevertheless, I
carefully preserved my ladder against one of those unforeseen
opportunities of which I spoke just now, and which sudden chance
frequently brings about.ГўВҖВқ

While affecting to be deeply engaged in examining the ladder, the mind
of DantГғВЁs was, in fact, busily occupied by the idea that a person so
intelligent, ingenious, and clear-sighted as the abbГғВ© might probably be
able to solve the dark mystery of his own misfortunes, where he himself
could see nothing.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you thinking of?ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ© smilingly, imputing the deep
abstraction in which his visitor was plunged to the excess of his awe
and wonder.

ГўВҖВңI was reflecting, in the first place,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңupon the
enormous degree of intelligence and ability you must have employed to
reach the high perfection to which you have attained. What would you
not have accomplished if you had been free?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPossibly nothing at all; the overflow of my brain would probably, in a
state of freedom, have evaporated in a thousand follies; misfortune is
needed to bring to light the treasures of the human intellect.
Compression is needed to explode gunpowder. Captivity has brought my
mental faculties to a focus; and you are well aware that from the
collision of clouds electricity is producedГўВҖВ”from electricity,
lightning, from lightning, illumination.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңI know nothing. Some of your words are to me
quite empty of meaning. You must be blessed indeed to possess the
knowledge you have.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© smiled. ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңbut you had another subject for your
thoughts; did you not say so just now?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have told me as yet but one of themГўВҖВ”let me hear the other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was this,ГўВҖВ”that while you had related to me all the particulars of
your past life, you were perfectly unacquainted with mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour life, my young friend, has not been of sufficient length to admit
of your having passed through any very important events.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt has been long enough to inflict on me a great and undeserved
misfortune. I would fain fix the source of it on man that I may no
longer vent reproaches upon Heaven.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you profess ignorance of the crime with which you are charged?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do, indeed; and this I swear by the two beings most dear to me upon
earth,ГўВҖВ”my father and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, closing his hiding-place, and pushing the bed
back to its original situation, ГўВҖВңlet me hear your story.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs obeyed, and commenced what he called his history, but which
consisted only of the account of a voyage to India, and two or three
voyages to the Levant, until he arrived at the recital of his last
cruise, with the death of Captain Leclere, and the receipt of a packet
to be delivered by himself to the grand marshal; his interview with
that personage, and his receiving, in place of the packet brought, a
letter addressed to a Monsieur NoirtierГўВҖВ”his arrival at Marseilles, and
interview with his fatherГўВҖВ”his affection for MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, and their nuptial
feastГўВҖВ”his arrest and subsequent examination, his temporary detention at
the Palais de Justice, and his final imprisonment in the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf.
From this point everything was a blank to DantГғВЁsГўВҖВ”he knew nothing more,
not even the length of time he had been imprisoned. His recital
finished, the abbГғВ© reflected long and earnestly.

ГўВҖВңThere is,ГўВҖВқ said he, at the end of his meditations, ГўВҖВңa clever maxim,
which bears upon what I was saying to you some little while ago, and
that is, that unless wicked ideas take root in a naturally depraved
mind, human nature, in a right and wholesome state, revolts at crime.
Still, from an artificial civilization have originated wants, vices,
and false tastes, which occasionally become so powerful as to stifle
within us all good feelings, and ultimately to lead us into guilt and
wickedness. From this view of things, then, comes the axiom that if you
visit to discover the author of any bad action, seek first to discover
the person to whom the perpetration of that bad action could be in any
way advantageous. Now, to apply it in your case,ГўВҖВ”to whom could your
disappearance have been serviceable?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo no one, by Heaven! I was a very insignificant person.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not speak thus, for your reply evinces neither logic nor
philosophy; everything is relative, my dear young friend, from the king
who stands in the way of his successor, to the employee who keeps his
rival out of a place. Now, in the event of the kingГўВҖВҷs death, his
successor inherits a crown,ГўВҖВ”when the employee dies, the supernumerary
steps into his shoes, and receives his salary of twelve thousand
livres. Well, these twelve thousand livres are his civil list, and are
as essential to him as the twelve millions of a king. Everyone, from
the highest to the lowest degree, has his place on the social ladder,
and is beset by stormy passions and conflicting interests, as in
DescartesГўВҖВҷ theory of pressure and impulsion. But these forces increase
as we go higher, so that we have a spiral which in defiance of reason
rests upon the apex and not on the base. Now let us return to your
particular world. You say you were on the point of being made captain
of the _Pharaon_?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd about to become the husband of a young and lovely girl?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, could anyone have had any interest in preventing the
accomplishment of these two things? But let us first settle the
question as to its being the interest of anyone to hinder you from
being captain of the _Pharaon_. What say you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI cannot believe such was the case. I was generally liked on board,
and had the sailors possessed the right of selecting a captain
themselves, I feel convinced their choice would have fallen on me.
There was only one person among the crew who had any feeling of
ill-will towards me. I had quarelled with him some time previously, and
had even challenged him to fight me; but he refused.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow we are getting on. And what was this manГўВҖВҷs name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDanglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat rank did he hold on board?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe was supercargo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd had you been captain, should you have retained him in his
employment?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot if the choice had remained with me, for I had frequently observed
inaccuracies in his accounts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood again! Now then, tell me, was any person present during your last
conversation with Captain Leclere?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; we were quite alone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCould your conversation have been overheard by anyone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt might, for the cabin door was openГўВҖВ”andГўВҖВ”stay; now I
recollect,ГўВҖВ”Danglars himself passed by just as Captain Leclere was
giving me the packet for the grand marshal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs better,ГўВҖВқ cried the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңnow we are on the right scent. Did
you take anybody with you when you put into the port of Elba?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNobody.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSomebody there received your packet, and gave you a letter in place of
it, I think?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; the grand marshal did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did you do with that letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPut it into my portfolio.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou had your portfolio with you, then? Now, how could a sailor find
room in his pocket for a portfolio large enough to contain an official
letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right; it was left on board.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen it was not till your return to the ship that you put the letter
in the portfolio?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did you do with this same letter while returning from
Porto-Ferrajo to the vessel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI carried it in my hand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that when you went on board the _Pharaon_, everybody could see that
you held a letter in your hand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDanglars, as well as the rest?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDanglars, as well as others.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, listen to me, and try to recall every circumstance attending your
arrest. Do you recollect the words in which the information against you
was formulated?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh yes, I read it over three times, and the words sank deeply into my
memory.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRepeat it to me.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs paused a moment, then said, ГўВҖВңThis is it, word for word: ГўВҖВҳThe
kingГўВҖВҷs attorney is informed by a friend to the throne and religion,
that one Edmond DantГғВЁs, mate on board the _Pharaon_, this day arrived
from Smyrna, after having touched at Naples and Porto-Ferrajo, has been
intrusted by Murat with a packet for the usurper; again, by the
usurper, with a letter for the Bonapartist Club in Paris. This proof of
his guilt may be procured by his immediate arrest, as the letter will
be found either about his person, at his fatherГўВҖВҷs residence, or in his
cabin on board the _Pharaon_.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© shrugged his shoulders. ГўВҖВңThe thing is clear as day,ГўВҖВқ said he;
ГўВҖВңand you must have had a very confiding nature, as well as a good
heart, not to have suspected the origin of the whole affair.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you really think so? Ah, that would indeed be infamous.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow did Danglars usually write?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn a handsome, running hand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how was the anonymous letter written?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBackhanded.ГўВҖВқ

Again the abbГғВ© smiled. ГўВҖВңDisguised.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was very boldly written, if disguised.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStop a bit,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, taking up what he called his pen, and,
after dipping it into the ink, he wrote on a piece of prepared linen,
with his left hand, the first two or three words of the accusation.
DantГғВЁs drew back, and gazed on the abbГғВ© with a sensation almost
amounting to terror.

ГўВҖВңHow very astonishing!ГўВҖВқ cried he at length. ГўВҖВңWhy your writing exactly
resembles that of the accusation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSimply because that accusation had been written with the left hand;
and I have noticed thatГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat while the writing of different persons done with the right hand
varies, that performed with the left hand is invariably uniform.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have evidently seen and observed everything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us proceed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, yes!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow as regards the second question.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am listening.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas there any person whose interest it was to prevent your marriage
with MercГғВ©dГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; a young man who loved her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd his name wasГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFernand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is a Spanish name, I think?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe was a Catalan.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou imagine him capable of writing the letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no; he would more likely have got rid of me by sticking a knife
into me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is in strict accordance with the Spanish character; an
assassination they will unhesitatingly commit, but an act of cowardice,
never.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBesides,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңthe various circumstances mentioned in the
letter were wholly unknown to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou had never spoken of them yourself to anyone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo no one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot even to your mistress?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, not even to my betrothed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen it is Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI feel quite sure of it now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait a little. Pray, was Danglars acquainted with Fernand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNoГўВҖВ”yes, he was. Now I recollectГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo have seen them both sitting at table together under an arbor at
PГғВЁre PamphileГўВҖВҷs the evening before the day fixed for my wedding. They
were in earnest conversation. Danglars was joking in a friendly way,
but Fernand looked pale and agitated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWere they alone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere was a third person with them whom I knew perfectly well, and who
had, in all probability made their acquaintance; he was a tailor named
Caderousse, but he was very drunk. Stay!ГўВҖВ”stay!ГўВҖВ”How strange that it
should not have occurred to me before! Now I remember quite well, that
on the table round which they were sitting were pens, ink, and paper.
Oh, the heartless, treacherous scoundrels!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs, pressing
his hand to his throbbing brows.

ГўВҖВңIs there anything else I can assist you in discovering, besides the
villany of your friends?ГўВҖВқ inquired the abbГғВ© with a laugh.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs eagerly; ГўВҖВңI would beg of you, who see so
completely to the depths of things, and to whom the greatest mystery
seems but an easy riddle, to explain to me how it was that I underwent
no second examination, was never brought to trial, and, above all, was
condemned without ever having had sentence passed on me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is altogether a different and more serious matter,ГўВҖВқ responded the
abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңThe ways of justice are frequently too dark and mysterious to be
easily penetrated. All we have hitherto done in the matter has been
childГўВҖВҷs play. If you wish me to enter upon the more difficult part of
the business, you must assist me by the most minute information on
every point.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray ask me whatever questions you please; for, in good truth, you see
more clearly into my life than I do myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the first place, then, who examined you,ГўВҖВ”the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, his
deputy, or a magistrate?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe deputy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas he young or old?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbout six or seven-and-twenty years of age, I should say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo,ГўВҖВқ answered the abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңOld enough to be ambitious, but too young to
be corrupt. And how did he treat you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith more of mildness than severity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you tell him your whole story?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd did his conduct change at all in the course of your examination?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe did appear much disturbed when he read the letter that had brought
me into this scrape. He seemed quite overcome by my misfortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy your misfortune?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you feel quite sure that it was your misfortune he deplored?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe gave me one great proof of his sympathy, at any rate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe burnt the sole evidence that could at all have criminated me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? the accusation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; the letter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you sure?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI saw it done.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat alters the case. This man might, after all, be a greater
scoundrel than you have thought possible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon my word,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңyou make me shudder. Is the world filled
with tigers and crocodiles?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; and remember that two-legged tigers and crocodiles are more
dangerous than the others.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind; let us go on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith all my heart! You tell me he burned the letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe did; saying at the same time, ГўВҖВҳYou see I thus destroy the only
proof existing against you.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis action is somewhat too sublime to be natural.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou think so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am sure of it. To whom was this letter addressed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo M. Noirtier, Rue Coq-HГғВ©ron, No. 13, Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow can you conceive of any interest that your heroic deputy could
possibly have had in the destruction of that letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, it is not altogether impossible he might have had, for he made me
promise several times never to speak of that letter to anyone, assuring
me he so advised me for my own interest; and, more than this, he
insisted on my taking a solemn oath never to utter the name mentioned
in the address.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNoirtier!ГўВҖВқ repeated the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңNoirtier!ГўВҖВ”I knew a person of that name
at the court of the Queen of Etruria,ГўВҖВ”a Noirtier, who had been a
Girondin during the Revolution! What was your deputy called?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDe Villefort!ГўВҖВқ The abbГғВ© burst into a fit of laughter, while DantГғВЁs
gazed on him in utter astonishment.

ГўВҖВңWhat ails you?ГўВҖВқ said he at length.

ГўВҖВңDo you see that ray of sunlight?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, the whole thing is more clear to me than that sunbeam is to you.
Poor fellow! poor young man! And you tell me this magistrate expressed
great sympathy and commiseration for you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the worthy man destroyed your compromising letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd then made you swear never to utter the name of Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you poor short-sighted simpleton, can you not guess who this
Noirtier was, whose very name he was so careful to keep concealed? This
Noirtier was his father!ГўВҖВқ

Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of DantГғВЁs, or hell opened its
yawning gulf before him, he could not have been more completely
transfixed with horror than he was at the sound of these unexpected
words. Starting up, he clasped his hands around his head as though to
prevent his very brain from bursting, and exclaimed, ГўВҖВңHis father! his
father!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, his father,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңhis right name was Noirtier de
Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

At this instant a bright light shot through the mind of DantГғВЁs, and
cleared up all that had been dark and obscure before. The change that
had come over Villefort during the examination, the destruction of the
letter, the exacted promise, the almost supplicating tones of the
magistrate, who seemed rather to implore mercy than to pronounce
punishment,ГўВҖВ”all returned with a stunning force to his memory. He cried
out, and staggered against the wall like a drunken man, then he hurried
to the opening that led from the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs cell to his own, and said, ГўВҖВңI
must be alone, to think over all this.ГўВҖВқ

When he regained his dungeon, he threw himself on his bed, where the
turnkey found him in the evening visit, sitting with fixed gaze and
contracted features, dumb and motionless as a statue. During these
hours of profound meditation, which to him had seemed only minutes, he
had formed a fearful resolution, and bound himself to its fulfilment by
a solemn oath.

DantГғВЁs was at length roused from his reverie by the voice of Faria,
who, having also been visited by his jailer, had come to invite his
fellow-sufferer to share his supper. The reputation of being out of his
mind, though harmlessly and even amusingly so, had procured for the
abbГғВ© unusual privileges. He was supplied with bread of a finer, whiter
quality than the usual prison fare, and even regaled each Sunday with a
small quantity of wine. Now this was a Sunday, and the abbГғВ© had come to
ask his young companion to share the luxuries with him.

DantГғВЁs followed him; his features were no longer contracted, and now
wore their usual expression, but there was that in his whole appearance
that bespoke one who had come to a fixed and desperate resolve. Faria
bent on him his penetrating eye.

ГўВҖВңI regret now,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңhaving helped you in your late inquiries, or
having given you the information I did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so?ГўВҖВқ inquired DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңBecause it has instilled a new passion in your heartГўВҖВ”that of
vengeance.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs smiled. ГўВҖВңLet us talk of something else,ГўВҖВқ said he.

Again the abbГғВ© looked at him, then mournfully shook his head; but in
accordance with DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ request, he began to speak of other matters.
The elder prisoner was one of those persons whose conversation, like
that of all who have experienced many trials, contained many useful and
important hints as well as sound information; but it was never
egotistical, for the unfortunate man never alluded to his own sorrows.
DantГғВЁs listened with admiring attention to all he said; some of his
remarks corresponded with what he already knew, or applied to the sort
of knowledge his nautical life had enabled him to acquire. A part of
the good abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs words, however, were wholly incomprehensible to him;
but, like the aurora which guides the navigator in northern latitudes,
opened new vistas to the inquiring mind of the listener, and gave
fantastic glimpses of new horizons, enabling him justly to estimate the
delight an intellectual mind would have in following one so richly
gifted as Faria along the heights of truth, where he was so much at
home.

ГўВҖВңYou must teach me a small part of what you know,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңif
only to prevent your growing weary of me. I can well believe that so
learned a person as yourself would prefer absolute solitude to being
tormented with the company of one as ignorant and uninformed as myself.
If you will only agree to my request, I promise you never to mention
another word about escaping.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© smiled.

ГўВҖВңAlas, my boy,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңhuman knowledge is confined within very
narrow limits; and when I have taught you mathematics, physics,
history, and the three or four modern languages with which I am
acquainted, you will know as much as I do myself. Now, it will scarcely
require two years for me to communicate to you the stock of learning I
possess.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo years!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңdo you really believe I can acquire all
these things in so short a time?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot their application, certainly, but their principles you may; to
learn is not to know; there are the learners and the learned. Memory
makes the one, philosophy the other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut cannot one learn philosophy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPhilosophy cannot be taught; it is the application of the sciences to
truth; it is like the golden cloud in which the Messiah went up into
heaven.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңWhat shall you teach me first? I am in a
hurry to begin. I want to learn.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverything,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©. And that very evening the prisoners
sketched a plan of education, to be entered upon the following day.
DantГғВЁs possessed a prodigious memory, combined with an astonishing
quickness and readiness of conception; the mathematical turn of his
mind rendered him apt at all kinds of calculation, while his naturally
poetical feelings threw a light and pleasing veil over the dry reality
of arithmetical computation, or the rigid severity of geometry. He
already knew Italian, and had also picked up a little of the Romaic
dialect during voyages to the East; and by the aid of these two
languages he easily comprehended the construction of all the others, so
that at the end of six months he began to speak Spanish, English, and
German.

In strict accordance with the promise made to the abbГғВ©, DantГғВЁs spoke no
more of escape. Perhaps the delight his studies afforded him left no
room for such thoughts; perhaps the recollection that he had pledged
his word (on which his sense of honor was keen) kept him from referring
in any way to the possibilities of flight. Days, even months, passed by
unheeded in one rapid and instructive course. At the end of a year
DantГғВЁs was a new man. DantГғВЁs observed, however, that Faria, in spite of
the relief his society afforded, daily grew sadder; one thought seemed
incessantly to harass and distract his mind. Sometimes he would fall
into long reveries, sigh heavily and involuntarily, then suddenly rise,
and, with folded arms, begin pacing the confined space of his dungeon.
One day he stopped all at once, and exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңAh, if there were no sentinel!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere shall not be one a minute longer than you please,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs,
who had followed the working of his thoughts as accurately as though
his brain were enclosed in crystal so clear as to display its minutest
operations.

ГўВҖВңI have already told you,ГўВҖВқ answered the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңthat I loathe the idea
of shedding blood.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd yet the murder, if you choose to call it so, would be simply a
measure of self-preservation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo matter! I could never agree to it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, you have thought of it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIncessantly, alas!ГўВҖВқ cried the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңAnd you have discovered a means of regaining our freedom, have you
not?ГўВҖВқ asked DantГғВЁs eagerly.

ГўВҖВңI have; if it were only possible to place a deaf and blind sentinel in
the gallery beyond us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe shall be both blind and deaf,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, with an air
of determination that made his companion shudder.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ cried the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңimpossible!ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs endeavored to renew the subject; the abbГғВ© shook his head in
token of disapproval, and refused to make any further response. Three
months passed away.

ГўВҖВңAre you strong?ГўВҖВқ the abbГғВ© asked one day of DantГғВЁs. The young man, in
reply, took up the chisel, bent it into the form of a horseshoe, and
then as readily straightened it.

ГўВҖВңAnd will you engage not to do any harm to the sentry, except as a last
resort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI promise on my honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңwe may hope to put our design into execution.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how long shall we be in accomplishing the necessary work?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least a year.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd shall we begin at once?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe have lost a year to no purpose!ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңDo you consider the last twelve months to have been wasted?ГўВҖВқ asked the
abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңForgive me!ГўВҖВқ cried Edmond, blushing deeply.

ГўВҖВңTut, tut!ГўВҖВқ answered the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңman is but man after all, and you are
about the best specimen of the genus I have ever known. Come, let me
show you my plan.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© then showed DantГғВЁs the sketch he had made for their escape. It
consisted of a plan of his own cell and that of DantГғВЁs, with the
passage which united them. In this passage he proposed to drive a level
as they do in mines; this level would bring the two prisoners
immediately beneath the gallery where the sentry kept watch; once
there, a large excavation would be made, and one of the flag-stones
with which the gallery was paved be so completely loosened that at the
desired moment it would give way beneath the feet of the soldier, who,
stunned by his fall, would be immediately bound and gagged by DantГғВЁs
before he had power to offer any resistance. The prisoners were then to
make their way through one of the gallery windows, and to let
themselves down from the outer walls by means of the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs ladder of
cords.

DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ eyes sparkled with joy, and he rubbed his hands with delight at
the idea of a plan so simple, yet apparently so certain to succeed.
That very day the miners began their labors, with a vigor and alacrity
proportionate to their long rest from fatigue and their hopes of
ultimate success. Nothing interrupted the progress of the work except
the necessity that each was under of returning to his cell in
anticipation of the turnkeyГўВҖВҷs visits. They had learned to distinguish
the almost imperceptible sound of his footsteps as he descended towards
their dungeons, and happily, never failed of being prepared for his
coming. The fresh earth excavated during their present work, and which
would have entirely blocked up the old passage, was thrown, by degrees
and with the utmost precaution, out of the window in either FariaГўВҖВҷs or
DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ cell, the rubbish being first pulverized so finely that the
night wind carried it far away without permitting the smallest trace to
remain.

More than a year had been consumed in this undertaking, the only tools
for which had been a chisel, a knife, and a wooden lever; Faria still
continuing to instruct DantГғВЁs by conversing with him, sometimes in one
language, sometimes in another; at others, relating to him the history
of nations and great men who from time to time have risen to fame and
trodden the path of glory. The abbГғВ© was a man of the world, and had,
moreover, mixed in the first society of the day; he wore an air of
melancholy dignity which DantГғВЁs, thanks to the imitative powers
bestowed on him by nature, easily acquired, as well as that outward
polish and politeness he had before been wanting in, and which is
seldom possessed except by those who have been placed in constant
intercourse with persons of high birth and breeding.

At the end of fifteen months the level was finished, and the excavation
completed beneath the gallery, and the two workmen could distinctly
hear the measured tread of the sentinel as he paced to and fro over
their heads. Compelled, as they were, to await a night sufficiently
dark to favor their flight, they were obliged to defer their final
attempt till that auspicious moment should arrive; their greatest dread
now was lest the stone through which the sentry was doomed to fall
should give way before its right time, and this they had in some
measure provided against by propping it up with a small beam which they
had discovered in the walls through which they had worked their way.
DantГғВЁs was occupied in arranging this piece of wood when he heard
Faria, who had remained in EdmondГўВҖВҷs cell for the purpose of cutting a
peg to secure their rope-ladder, call to him in a tone indicative of
great suffering. DantГғВЁs hastened to his dungeon, where he found him
standing in the middle of the room, pale as death, his forehead
streaming with perspiration, and his hands clenched tightly together.

ГўВҖВңGracious heavens!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңwhat is the matter? what has
happened?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңQuick! quick!ГўВҖВқ returned the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңlisten to what I have to say.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs looked in fear and wonder at the livid countenance of Faria,
whose eyes, already dull and sunken, were surrounded by purple circles,
while his lips were white as those of a corpse, and his very hair
seemed to stand on end.

ГўВҖВңTell me, I beseech you, what ails you?ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, letting his
chisel fall to the floor.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ faltered out the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңall is over with me. I am seized with a
terrible, perhaps mortal illness; I can feel that the paroxysm is fast
approaching. I had a similar attack the year previous to my
imprisonment. This malady admits but of one remedy; I will tell you
what that is. Go into my cell as quickly as you can; draw out one of
the feet that support the bed; you will find it has been hollowed out
for the purpose of containing a small phial you will see there
half-filled with a red-looking fluid. Bring it to meГўВҖВ”or ratherГўВҖВ”no,
no!ГўВҖВ”I may be found here, therefore help me back to my room while I have
the strength to drag myself along. Who knows what may happen, or how
long the attack may last?ГўВҖВқ

In spite of the magnitude of the misfortune which thus suddenly
frustrated his hopes, DantГғВЁs did not lose his presence of mind, but
descended into the passage, dragging his unfortunate companion with
him; then, half-carrying, half-supporting him, he managed to reach the
abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs chamber, when he immediately laid the sufferer on his bed.

ГўВҖВңThanks,ГўВҖВқ said the poor abbГғВ©, shivering as though his veins were filled
with ice. ГўВҖВңI am about to be seized with a fit of catalepsy; when it
comes to its height I shall probably lie still and motionless as though
dead, uttering neither sigh nor groan. On the other hand, the symptoms
may be much more violent, and cause me to fall into fearful
convulsions, foam at the mouth, and cry out loudly. Take care my cries
are not heard, for if they are it is more than probable I should be
removed to another part of the prison, and we be separated forever.
When I become quite motionless, cold, and rigid as a corpse, then, and
not before,ГўВҖВ”be careful about this,ГўВҖВ”force open my teeth with the knife,
pour from eight to ten drops of the liquor contained in the phial down
my throat, and I may perhaps revive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs in grief-stricken tones.

ГўВҖВңHelp! help!ГўВҖВқ cried the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВ”IГўВҖВ”dieГўВҖВ”IГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

0229m



So sudden and violent was the fit that the unfortunate prisoner was
unable to complete the sentence; a violent convulsion shook his whole
frame, his eyes started from their sockets, his mouth was drawn on one
side, his cheeks became purple, he struggled, foamed, dashed himself
about, and uttered the most dreadful cries, which, however, DantГғВЁs
prevented from being heard by covering his head with the blanket. The
fit lasted two hours; then, more helpless than an infant, and colder
and paler than marble, more crushed and broken than a reed trampled
under foot, he fell back, doubled up in one last convulsion, and became
as rigid as a corpse.

Edmond waited till life seemed extinct in the body of his friend, then,
taking up the knife, he with difficulty forced open the closely fixed
jaws, carefully administered the appointed number of drops, and
anxiously awaited the result. An hour passed away and the old man gave
no sign of returning animation. DantГғВЁs began to fear he had delayed too
long ere he administered the remedy, and, thrusting his hands into his
hair, continued gazing on the lifeless features of his friend. At
length a slight color tinged the livid cheeks, consciousness returned
to the dull, open eyeballs, a faint sigh issued from the lips, and the
sufferer made a feeble effort to move.

ГўВҖВңHe is saved! he is saved!ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs in a paroxysm of delight.

The sick man was not yet able to speak, but he pointed with evident
anxiety towards the door. DantГғВЁs listened, and plainly distinguished
the approaching steps of the jailer. It was therefore near seven
oГўВҖВҷclock; but EdmondГўВҖВҷs anxiety had put all thoughts of time out of his
head.

The young man sprang to the entrance, darted through it, carefully
drawing the stone over the opening, and hurried to his cell. He had
scarcely done so before the door opened, and the jailer saw the
prisoner seated as usual on the side of his bed. Almost before the key
had turned in the lock, and before the departing steps of the jailer
had died away in the long corridor he had to traverse, DantГғВЁs, whose
restless anxiety concerning his friend left him no desire to touch the
food brought him, hurried back to the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs chamber, and raising the
stone by pressing his head against it, was soon beside the sick manГўВҖВҷs
couch. Faria had now fully regained his consciousness, but he still lay
helpless and exhausted on his miserable bed.

ГўВҖВңI did not expect to see you again,ГўВҖВқ said he feebly, to DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңAnd why not?ГўВҖВқ asked the young man. ГўВҖВңDid you fancy yourself dying?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I had no such idea; but, knowing that all was ready for flight, I
thought you might have made your escape.ГўВҖВқ

The deep glow of indignation suffused the cheeks of DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWithout you? Did you really think me capable of that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңI now see how wrong such an opinion would
have been. Alas, alas! I am fearfully exhausted and debilitated by this
attack.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe of good cheer,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңyour strength will return.ГўВҖВқ And as
he spoke he seated himself near the bed beside Faria, and took his
hands. The abbГғВ© shook his head.

ГўВҖВңThe last attack I had,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңlasted but half an hour, and after
it I was hungry, and got up without help; now I can move neither my
right arm nor leg, and my head seems uncomfortable, which shows that
there has been a suffusion of blood on the brain. The third attack will
either carry me off, or leave me paralyzed for life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңyou are mistakenГўВҖВ”you will not die! And your
third attack (if, indeed, you should have another) will find you at
liberty. We shall save you another time, as we have done this, only
with a better chance of success, because we shall be able to command
every requisite assistance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy good Edmond,ГўВҖВқ answered the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңbe not deceived. The attack which
has just passed away, condemns me forever to the walls of a prison.
None can fly from a dungeon who cannot walk.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, we will wait,ГўВҖВ”a week, a month, two months, if need be,ГўВҖВ”and
meanwhile your strength will return. Everything is in readiness for our
flight, and we can select any time we choose. As soon as you feel able
to swim we will go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall never swim again,ГўВҖВқ replied Faria. ГўВҖВңThis arm is paralyzed; not
for a time, but forever. Lift it, and judge if I am mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

The young man raised the arm, which fell back by its own weight,
perfectly inanimate and helpless. A sigh escaped him.

ГўВҖВңYou are convinced now, Edmond, are you not?ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңDepend
upon it, I know what I say. Since the first attack I experienced of
this malady, I have continually reflected on it. Indeed, I expected it,
for it is a family inheritance; both my father and grandfather died of
it in a third attack. The physician who prepared for me the remedy I
have twice successfully taken, was no other than the celebrated
Cabanis, and he predicted a similar end for me.ГўВҖВқ

0233m



ГўВҖВңThe physician may be mistaken!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңAnd as for your
poor arm, what difference will that make? I can take you on my
shoulders, and swim for both of us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy son,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңyou, who are a sailor and a swimmer, must
know as well as I do that a man so loaded would sink before he had done
fifty strokes. Cease, then, to allow yourself to be duped by vain
hopes, that even your own excellent heart refuses to believe in. Here I
shall remain till the hour of my deliverance arrives, and that, in all
human probability, will be the hour of my death. As for you, who are
young and active, delay not on my account, but flyГўВҖВ”goГўВҖВ”I give you back
your promise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is well,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңThen I shall also remain.ГўВҖВқ Then, rising and
extending his hand with an air of solemnity over the old manГўВҖВҷs head, he
slowly added, ГўВҖВңBy the blood of Christ I swear never to leave you while
you live.ГўВҖВқ

Faria gazed fondly on his noble-minded, single-hearted, high-principled
young friend, and read in his countenance ample confirmation of the
sincerity of his devotion and the loyalty of his purpose.

ГўВҖВңThanks,ГўВҖВқ murmured the invalid, extending one hand. ГўВҖВңI accept. You may
one of these days reap the reward of your disinterested devotion. But
as I cannot, and you will not, quit this place, it becomes necessary to
fill up the excavation beneath the soldierГўВҖВҷs gallery; he might, by
chance, hear the hollow sound of his footsteps, and call the attention
of his officer to the circumstance. That would bring about a discovery
which would inevitably lead to our being separated. Go, then, and set
about this work, in which, unhappily, I can offer you no assistance;
keep at it all night, if necessary, and do not return here tomorrow
till after the jailer has visited me. I shall have something of the
greatest importance to communicate to you.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs took the hand of the abbГғВ© in his, and affectionately pressed it.
Faria smiled encouragingly on him, and the young man retired to his
task, in the spirit of obedience and respect which he had sworn to show
towards his aged friend.



 Chapter 18. The Treasure

When DantГғВЁs returned next morning to the chamber of his companion in
captivity, he found Faria seated and looking composed. In the ray of
light which entered by the narrow window of his cell, he held open in
his left hand, of which alone, it will be recollected, he retained the
use, a sheet of paper, which, from being constantly rolled into a small
compass, had the form of a cylinder, and was not easily kept open. He
did not speak, but showed the paper to DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ he inquired.

ГўВҖВңLook at it,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ© with a smile.

ГўВҖВңI have looked at it with all possible attention,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңand I
only see a half-burnt paper, on which are traces of Gothic characters
inscribed with a peculiar kind of ink.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis paper, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said Faria, ГўВҖВңI may now avow to you, since I
have the proof of your fidelityГўВҖВ”this paper is my treasure, of which,
from this day forth, one-half belongs to you.ГўВҖВқ

The sweat started forth on DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ brow. Until this day and for how
long a time!ГўВҖВ”he had refrained from talking of the treasure, which had
brought upon the abbГғВ© the accusation of madness. With his instinctive
delicacy Edmond had preferred avoiding any touch on this painful chord,
and Faria had been equally silent. He had taken the silence of the old
man for a return to reason; and now these few words uttered by Faria,
after so painful a crisis, seemed to indicate a serious relapse into
mental alienation.

ГўВҖВңYour treasure?ГўВҖВқ stammered DantГғВЁs. Faria smiled.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңYou have, indeed, a noble nature, Edmond, and I see by
your paleness and agitation what is passing in your heart at this
moment. No, be assured, I am not mad. This treasure exists, DantГғВЁs, and
if I have not been allowed to possess it, you will. YesГўВҖВ”you. No one
would listen or believe me, because everyone thought me mad; but you,
who must know that I am not, listen to me, and believe me so afterwards
if you will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ murmured Edmond to himself, ГўВҖВңthis is a terrible relapse! There
was only this blow wanting.ГўВҖВқ Then he said aloud, ГўВҖВңMy dear friend, your
attack has, perhaps, fatigued you; had you not better repose awhile?
Tomorrow, if you will, I will hear your narrative; but today I wish to
nurse you carefully. Besides,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңa treasure is not a thing we
need hurry about.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, it is a matter of the utmost importance, Edmond!ГўВҖВқ
replied the old man. ГўВҖВңWho knows if tomorrow, or the next day after, the
third attack may not come on? and then must not all be over? Yes,
indeed, I have often thought with a bitter joy that these riches, which
would make the wealth of a dozen families, will be forever lost to
those men who persecute me. This idea was one of vengeance to me, and I
tasted it slowly in the night of my dungeon and the despair of my
captivity. But now I have forgiven the world for the love of you; now
that I see you, young and with a promising future,ГўВҖВ”now that I think of
all that may result to you in the good fortune of such a disclosure, I
shudder at any delay, and tremble lest I should not assure to one as
worthy as yourself the possession of so vast an amount of hidden
wealth.ГўВҖВқ

Edmond turned away his head with a sigh.

ГўВҖВңYou persist in your incredulity, Edmond,ГўВҖВқ continued Faria. ГўВҖВңMy words
have not convinced you. I see you require proofs. Well, then, read this
paper, which I have never shown to anyone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTomorrow, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Edmond, desirous of not yielding to
the old manГўВҖВҷs madness. ГўВҖВңI thought it was understood that we should not
talk of that until tomorrow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen we will not talk of it until tomorrow; but read this paper
today.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will not irritate him,ГўВҖВқ thought Edmond, and taking the paper, of
which half was wanting,ГўВҖВ”having been burnt, no doubt, by some
accident,ГўВҖВ”he read:

ГўВҖВңthis treasure, which may amount to two...

of Roman crowns in the most distant a...

of the second opening wh...

declare to belong to him alo...

heir.

                    ГўВҖВң25th April, 149ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ


ГўВҖВңWell!ГўВҖВқ said Faria, when the young man had finished reading it.

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңI see nothing but broken lines and unconnected
words, which are rendered illegible by fire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, to you, my friend, who read them for the first time; but not for
me, who have grown pale over them by many nightsГўВҖВҷ study, and have
reconstructed every phrase, completed every thought.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you believe you have discovered the hidden meaning?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am sure I have, and you shall judge for yourself; but first listen
to the history of this paper.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSilence!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңSteps approachГўВҖВ”I goГўВҖВ”adieu!ГўВҖВқ

And DantГғВЁs, happy to escape the history and explanation which would be
sure to confirm his belief in his friendГўВҖВҷs mental instability, glided
like a snake along the narrow passage; while Faria, restored by his
alarm to a certain amount of activity, pushed the stone into place with
his foot, and covered it with a mat in order the more effectually to
avoid discovery.

It was the governor, who, hearing of FariaГўВҖВҷs illness from the jailer,
had come in person to see him.

Faria sat up to receive him, avoiding all gestures in order that he
might conceal from the governor the paralysis that had already half
stricken him with death. His fear was lest the governor, touched with
pity, might order him to be removed to better quarters, and thus
separate him from his young companion. But fortunately this was not the
case, and the governor left him, convinced that the poor madman, for
whom in his heart he felt a kind of affection, was only troubled with a
slight indisposition.

During this time, Edmond, seated on his bed with his head in his hands,
tried to collect his scattered thoughts. Faria, since their first
acquaintance, had been on all points so rational and logical, so
wonderfully sagacious, in fact, that he could not understand how so
much wisdom on all points could be allied with madness. Was Faria
deceived as to his treasure, or was all the world deceived as to Faria?

DantГғВЁs remained in his cell all day, not daring to return to his
friend, thinking thus to defer the moment when he should be convinced,
once for all, that the abbГғВ© was madГўВҖВ”such a conviction would be so
terrible!

But, towards the evening after the hour for the customary visit had
gone by, Faria, not seeing the young man appear, tried to move and get
over the distance which separated them. Edmond shuddered when he heard
the painful efforts which the old man made to drag himself along; his
leg was inert, and he could no longer make use of one arm. Edmond was
obliged to assist him, for otherwise he would not have been able to
enter by the small aperture which led to DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ chamber.

ГўВҖВңHere I am, pursuing you remorselessly,ГўВҖВқ he said with a benignant
smile. ГўВҖВңYou thought to escape my munificence, but it is in vain. Listen
to me.ГўВҖВқ

Edmond saw there was no escape, and placing the old man on his bed, he
seated himself on the stool beside him.

ГўВҖВңYou know,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңthat I was the secretary and intimate
friend of Cardinal Spada, the last of the princes of that name. I owe
to this worthy lord all the happiness I ever knew. He was not rich,
although the wealth of his family had passed into a proverb, and I
heard the phrase very often, ГўВҖВҳAs rich as a Spada.ГўВҖВҷ But he, like public
rumor, lived on this reputation for wealth; his palace was my paradise.
I was tutor to his nephews, who are dead; and when he was alone in the
world, I tried by absolute devotion to his will, to make up to him all
he had done for me during ten years of unremitting kindness. The
cardinalГўВҖВҷs house had no secrets for me. I had often seen my noble
patron annotating ancient volumes, and eagerly searching amongst dusty
family manuscripts. One day when I was reproaching him for his
unavailing searches, and deploring the prostration of mind that
followed them, he looked at me, and, smiling bitterly, opened a volume
relating to the History of the City of Rome. There, in the twentieth
chapter of the Life of Pope Alexander VI., were the following lines,
which I can never forget:ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe great wars of Romagna had ended; CГғВҰsar Borgia, who had completed
his conquest, had need of money to purchase all Italy. The pope had
also need of money to bring matters to an end with Louis XII. King of
France, who was formidable still in spite of his recent reverses; and
it was necessary, therefore, to have recourse to some profitable
scheme, which was a matter of great difficulty in the impoverished
condition of exhausted Italy. His holiness had an idea. He determined
to make two cardinals.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңBy choosing two of the greatest personages of Rome, especially rich
menГўВҖВ”_this_ was the return the Holy Father looked for. In the first
place, he could sell the great appointments and splendid offices which
the cardinals already held; and then he had the two hats to sell
besides. There was a third point in view, which will appear hereafter.

ГўВҖВңThe pope and CГғВҰsar Borgia first found the two future cardinals; they
were Giovanni Rospigliosi, who held four of the highest dignities of
the Holy See, and CГғВҰsar Spada, one of the noblest and richest of the
Roman nobility; both felt the high honor of such a favor from the pope.
They were ambitious, and CГғВҰsar Borgia soon found purchasers for their
appointments. The result was, that Rospigliosi and Spada paid for being
cardinals, and eight other persons paid for the offices the cardinals
held before their elevation, and thus eight hundred thousand crowns
entered into the coffers of the speculators.

0239m



ГўВҖВңIt is time now to proceed to the last part of the speculation. The
pope heaped attentions upon Rospigliosi and Spada, conferred upon them
the insignia of the cardinalate, and induced them to arrange their
affairs and take up their residence at Rome. Then the pope and CГғВҰsar
Borgia invited the two cardinals to dinner. This was a matter of
dispute between the Holy Father and his son. CГғВҰsar thought they could
make use of one of the means which he always had ready for his friends,
that is to say, in the first place, the famous key which was given to
certain persons with the request that they go and open a designated
cupboard. This key was furnished with a small iron point,ГўВҖВ”a negligence
on the part of the locksmith. When this was pressed to effect the
opening of the cupboard, of which the lock was difficult, the person
was pricked by this small point, and died next day. Then there was the
ring with the lionГўВҖВҷs head, which CГғВҰsar wore when he wanted to greet his
friends with a clasp of the hand. The lion bit the hand thus favored,
and at the end of twenty-four hours, the bite was mortal.

ГўВҖВңCГғВҰsar proposed to his father, that they should either ask the
cardinals to open the cupboard, or shake hands with them; but Alexander
VI. replied: ГўВҖВҳNow as to the worthy cardinals, Spada and Rospigliosi,
let us ask both of them to dinner, something tells me that we shall get
that money back. Besides, you forget, CГғВҰsar, an indigestion declares
itself immediately, while a prick or a bite occasions a delay of a day
or two.ГўВҖВҷ CГғВҰsar gave way before such cogent reasoning, and the cardinals
were consequently invited to dinner.

ГўВҖВңThe table was laid in a vineyard belonging to the pope, near San
Pierdarena, a charming retreat which the cardinals knew very well by
report. Rospigliosi, quite set up with his new dignities, went with a
good appetite and his most ingratiating manner. Spada, a prudent man,
and greatly attached to his only nephew, a young captain of the highest
promise, took paper and pen, and made his will. He then sent word to
his nephew to wait for him near the vineyard; but it appeared the
servant did not find him.

ГўВҖВңSpada knew what these invitations meant; since Christianity, so
eminently civilizing, had made progress in Rome, it was no longer a
centurion who came from the tyrant with a message, ГўВҖВҳCГғВҰsar wills that
you die.ГўВҖВҷ but it was a legate _ГғВ  latere_, who came with a smile on his
lips to say from the pope, ГўВҖВҳHis holiness requests you to dine with
him.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңSpada set out about two oГўВҖВҷclock to San Pierdarena. The pope awaited
him. The first sight that attracted the eyes of Spada was that of his
nephew, in full costume, and CГғВҰsar Borgia paying him most marked
attentions. Spada turned pale, as CГғВҰsar looked at him with an ironical
air, which proved that he had anticipated all, and that the snare was
well spread.

ГўВҖВңThey began dinner and Spada was only able to inquire of his nephew if
he had received his message. The nephew replied no; perfectly
comprehending the meaning of the question. It was too late, for he had
already drunk a glass of excellent wine, placed for him expressly by
the popeГўВҖВҷs butler. Spada at the same moment saw another bottle approach
him, which he was pressed to taste. An hour afterwards a physician
declared they were both poisoned through eating mushrooms. Spada died
on the threshold of the vineyard; the nephew expired at his own door,
making signs which his wife could not comprehend.

ГўВҖВңThen CГғВҰsar and the pope hastened to lay hands on the heritage, under
pretense of seeking for the papers of the dead man. But the inheritance
consisted in this only, a scrap of paper on which Spada had written:ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳI
bequeath to my beloved nephew my coffers, my books, and, amongst
others, my breviary with the gold corners, which I beg he will preserve
in remembrance of his affectionate uncle.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe heirs sought everywhere, admired the breviary, laid hands on the
furniture, and were greatly astonished that Spada, the rich man, was
really the most miserable of unclesГўВҖВ”no treasuresГўВҖВ”unless they were those
of science, contained in the library and laboratories. That was all.
CГғВҰsar and his father searched, examined, scrutinized, but found
nothing, or at least very little; not exceeding a few thousand crowns
in plate, and about the same in ready money; but the nephew had time to
say to his wife before he expired: ГўВҖВҳLook well among my uncleГўВҖВҷs papers;
there is a will.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThey sought even more thoroughly than the august heirs had done, but
it was fruitless. There were two palaces and a vineyard behind the
Palatine Hill; but in these days landed property had not much value,
and the two palaces and the vineyard remained to the family since they
were beneath the rapacity of the pope and his son. Months and years
rolled on. Alexander VI. died, poisoned,ГўВҖВ”you know by what mistake.
CГғВҰsar, poisoned at the same time, escaped by shedding his skin like a
snake; but the new skin was spotted by the poison till it looked like a
tigerГўВҖВҷs. Then, compelled to quit Rome, he went and got himself
obscurely killed in a night skirmish, scarcely noticed in history.

ГўВҖВңAfter the popeГўВҖВҷs death and his sonГўВҖВҷs exile, it was supposed that the
Spada family would resume the splendid position they had held before
the cardinalГўВҖВҷs time; but this was not the case. The Spadas remained in
doubtful ease, a mystery hung over this dark affair, and the public
rumor was, that CГғВҰsar, a better politician than his father, had carried
off from the pope the fortune of the two cardinals. I say the two,
because Cardinal Rospigliosi, who had not taken any precaution, was
completely despoiled.

ГўВҖВңUp to this point,ГўВҖВқ said Faria, interrupting the thread of his
narrative, ГўВҖВңthis seems to you very meaningless, no doubt, eh?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, my friend,ГўВҖВқ cried DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңon the contrary, it seems as if I were
reading a most interesting narrative; go on, I beg of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will. The family began to get accustomed to their obscurity. Years
rolled on, and amongst the descendants some were soldiers, others
diplomatists; some churchmen, some bankers; some grew rich, and some
were ruined. I come now to the last of the family, whose secretary I
wasГўВҖВ”the Count of Spada. I had often heard him complain of the
disproportion of his rank with his fortune; and I advised him to invest
all he had in an annuity. He did so, and thus doubled his income. The
celebrated breviary remained in the family, and was in the countГўВҖВҷs
possession. It had been handed down from father to son; for the
singular clause of the only will that had been found, had caused it to
be regarded as a genuine relic, preserved in the family with
superstitious veneration. It was an illuminated book, with beautiful
Gothic characters, and so weighty with gold, that a servant always
carried it before the cardinal on days of great solemnity.

ГўВҖВңAt the sight of papers of all sorts,ГўВҖВ”titles, contracts, parchments,
which were kept in the archives of the family, all descending from the
poisoned cardinal, I in my turn examined the immense bundles of
documents, like twenty servitors, stewards, secretaries before me; but
in spite of the most exhaustive researches, I foundГўВҖВ”nothing. Yet I had
read, I had even written a precise history of the Borgia family, for
the sole purpose of assuring myself whether any increase of fortune had
occurred to them on the death of the Cardinal CГғВҰsar Spada; but could
only trace the acquisition of the property of the Cardinal Rospigliosi,
his companion in misfortune.

ГўВҖВңI was then almost assured that the inheritance had neither profited
the Borgias nor the family, but had remained unpossessed like the
treasures of the Arabian Nights, which slept in the bosom of the earth
under the eyes of the genie. I searched, ransacked, counted, calculated
a thousand and a thousand times the income and expenditure of the
family for three hundred years. It was useless. I remained in my
ignorance, and the Count of Spada in his poverty.

ГўВҖВңMy patron died. He had reserved from his annuity his family papers,
his library, composed of five thousand volumes, and his famous
breviary. All these he bequeathed to me, with a thousand Roman crowns,
which he had in ready money, on condition that I would have anniversary
masses said for the repose of his soul, and that I would draw up a
genealogical tree and history of his house. All this I did
scrupulously. Be easy, my dear Edmond, we are near the conclusion.

ГўВҖВңIn 1807, a month before I was arrested, and a fortnight after the
death of the Count of Spada, on the 25th of December (you will see
presently how the date became fixed in my memory), I was reading, for
the thousandth time, the papers I was arranging, for the palace was
sold to a stranger, and I was going to leave Rome and settle at
Florence, intending to take with me twelve thousand francs I possessed,
my library, and the famous breviary, when, tired with my constant labor
at the same thing, and overcome by a heavy dinner I had eaten, my head
dropped on my hands, and I fell asleep about three oГўВҖВҷclock in the
afternoon.

0243m



ГўВҖВңI awoke as the clock was striking six. I raised my head; I was in
utter darkness. I rang for a light, but, as no one came, I determined
to find one for myself. It was indeed but anticipating the simple
manners which I should soon be under the necessity of adopting. I took
a wax-candle in one hand, and with the other groped about for a piece
of paper (my match-box being empty), with which I proposed to get a
light from the small flame still playing on the embers. Fearing,
however, to make use of any valuable piece of paper, I hesitated for a
moment, then recollected that I had seen in the famous breviary, which
was on the table beside me, an old paper quite yellow with age, and
which had served as a marker for centuries, kept there by the request
of the heirs. I felt for it, found it, twisted it up together, and
putting it into the expiring flame, set light to it.

ГўВҖВңBut beneath my fingers, as if by magic, in proportion as the fire
ascended, I saw yellowish characters appear on the paper. I grasped it
in my hand, put out the flame as quickly as I could, lighted my taper
in the fire itself, and opened the crumpled paper with inexpressible
emotion, recognizing, when I had done so, that these characters had
been traced in mysterious and sympathetic ink, only appearing when
exposed to the fire; nearly one-third of the paper had been consumed by
the flame. It was that paper you read this morning; read it again,
DantГғВЁs, and then I will complete for you the incomplete words and
unconnected sense.ГўВҖВқ

Faria, with an air of triumph, offered the paper to DantГғВЁs, who this
time read the following words, traced with an ink of a reddish color
resembling rust:

     ГўВҖВңThis 25th day of April, 1498, be...

     Alexander VI., and fearing that not...

     he may desire to become my heir, and re...

     and Bentivoglio, who were poisoned,...

     my sole heir, that I have bu...

     and has visited with me, that is, in...

     Island of Monte Cristo, all I poss...

     jewels, diamonds, gems; that I alone...

     may amount to nearly two mil...

     will find on raising the twentieth ro...

     creek to the east in a right line. Two open...

     in these caves; the treasure is in the furthest a...

     which treasure I bequeath and leave en...

     as my sole heir.

     ГўВҖВң25th April, 1498.

     ГўВҖВңCГғВҰs...


ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңread this other paper;ГўВҖВқ and he presented to
DantГғВЁs a second leaf with fragments of lines written on it, which
Edmond read as follows:

           ГўВҖВң...ing invited to dine by his Holiness

        ...content with making me pay for my hat,

   ...serves for me the fate of Cardinals Caprara

           ...I declare to my nephew, Guido Spada

                      ...ried in a place he knows

                        ...the caves of the small

                 ...essed of ingots, gold, money,

 ...know of the existence of this treasure, which

           ...lions of Roman crowns, and which he

                             ...ck from the small

                           ...ings have been made

                           ...ngle in the second;

                                   ...tire to him

                                    ...ar ГўВҖВ  Spada.ГўВҖВқ


Faria followed him with an excited look.

ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ he said, when he saw that DantГғВЁs had read the last line,
ГўВҖВңput the two fragments together, and judge for yourself.ГўВҖВқ DantГғВЁs
obeyed, and the conjointed pieces gave the following:

0245m



ГўВҖВңThis 25th day of April, 1498, be...ing invited to dine by his Holiness
Alexander VI., and fearing that not...content with making me pay for my
hat, he may desire to become my heir, and re...serves for me the fate
of Cardinals Caprara and Bentivoglio, who were poisoned,...I declare to
my nephew, Guido Spada, my sole heir, that I have bu...ried in a place
he knows and has visited with me, that is, in...the caves of the small
Island of Monte Cristo, all I poss...essed of ingots, gold, money,
jewels, diamonds, gems; that I alone...know of the existence of this
treasure, which may amount to nearly two mil...lions of Roman crowns,
and which he will find on raising the twentieth ro...ck from the small
creek to the east in a right line. Two open...ings have been made in
these caves; the treasure is in the furthest a...ngle in the second;
which treasure I bequeath and leave en...tire to him as my sole heir.
ГўВҖВң25th April, 1498. ГўВҖВңCГғВҰs...ar ГўВҖВ  Spada.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, do you comprehend now?ГўВҖВқ inquired Faria.

ГўВҖВңIt is the declaration of Cardinal Spada, and the will so long sought
for,ГўВҖВқ replied Edmond, still incredulous.

ГўВҖВңYes; a thousand times, yes!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who completed it as it now is?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did. Aided by the remaining fragment, I guessed the rest; measuring
the length of the lines by those of the paper, and divining the hidden
meaning by means of what was in part revealed, as we are guided in a
cavern by the small ray of light above us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did you do when you arrived at this conclusion?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI resolved to set out, and did set out at that very instant, carrying
with me the beginning of my great work, the unity of the Italian
kingdom; but for some time the imperial police (who at this period,
quite contrary to what Napoleon desired so soon as he had a son born to
him, wished for a partition of provinces) had their eyes on me; and my
hasty departure, the cause of which they were unable to guess, having
aroused their suspicions, I was arrested at the very moment I was
leaving Piombino.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ continued Faria, addressing DantГғВЁs with an almost paternal
expression, ГўВҖВңnow, my dear fellow, you know as much as I do myself. If
we ever escape together, half this treasure is yours; if I die here,
and you escape alone, the whole belongs to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ inquired DantГғВЁs hesitating, ГўВҖВңhas this treasure no more
legitimate possessor in the world than ourselves?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, be easy on that score; the family is extinct. The last Count
of Spada, moreover, made me his heir, bequeathing to me this symbolic
breviary, he bequeathed to me all it contained; no, no, make your mind
satisfied on that point. If we lay hands on this fortune, we may enjoy
it without remorse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you say this treasure amounts toГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo millions of Roman crowns; nearly thirteen millions of our money.ГўВҖВқ2

ГўВҖВңImpossible!ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, staggered at the enormous amount.

ГўВҖВңImpossible? and why?ГўВҖВқ asked the old man. ГўВҖВңThe Spada family was one of
the oldest and most powerful families of the fifteenth century; and in
those times, when other opportunities for investment were wanting, such
accumulations of gold and jewels were by no means rare; there are at
this day Roman families perishing of hunger, though possessed of nearly
a million in diamonds and jewels, handed down by entail, and which they
cannot touch.ГўВҖВқ

Edmond thought he was in a dreamГўВҖВ”he wavered between incredulity and
joy.

ГўВҖВңI have only kept this secret so long from you,ГўВҖВқ continued Faria, ГўВҖВңthat
I might test your character, and then surprise you. Had we escaped
before my attack of catalepsy, I should have conducted you to Monte
Cristo; now,ГўВҖВқ he added, with a sigh, ГўВҖВңit is you who will conduct me
thither. Well, DantГғВЁs, you do not thank me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis treasure belongs to you, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңand to
you only. I have no right to it. I am no relation of yours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are my son, DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the old man. ГўВҖВңYou are the child of
my captivity. My profession condemns me to celibacy. God has sent you
to me to console, at one and the same time, the man who could not be a
father, and the prisoner who could not get free.ГўВҖВқ

And Faria extended the arm of which alone the use remained to him to
the young man, who threw himself upon his neck and wept.



 Chapter 19. The Third Attack

Now that this treasure, which had so long been the object of the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs
meditations, could insure the future happiness of him whom Faria really
loved as a son, it had doubled its value in his eyes, and every day he
expatiated on the amount, explaining to DantГғВЁs all the good which, with
thirteen or fourteen millions of francs, a man could do in these days
to his friends; and then DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ countenance became gloomy, for the
oath of vengeance he had taken recurred to his memory, and he reflected
how much ill, in these times, a man with thirteen or fourteen millions
could do to his enemies.

The abbГғВ© did not know the Island of Monte Cristo; but DantГғВЁs knew it,
and had often passed it, situated twenty-five miles from Pianosa,
between Corsica and the Island of Elba, and had once touched there.
This island was, always had been, and still is, completely deserted. It
is a rock of almost conical form, which looks as though it had been
thrust up by volcanic force from the depth to the surface of the ocean.
DantГғВЁs drew a plan of the island for Faria, and Faria gave DantГғВЁs
advice as to the means he should employ to recover the treasure. But
DantГғВЁs was far from being as enthusiastic and confident as the old man.
It was past a question now that Faria was not a lunatic, and the way in
which he had achieved the discovery, which had given rise to the
suspicion of his madness, increased EdmondГўВҖВҷs admiration of him; but at
the same time DantГғВЁs could not believe that the deposit, supposing it
had ever existed, still existed; and though he considered the treasure
as by no means chimerical, he yet believed it was no longer there.

However, as if fate resolved on depriving the prisoners of their last
chance, and making them understand that they were condemned to
perpetual imprisonment, a new misfortune befell them; the gallery on
the sea side, which had long been in ruins, was rebuilt. They had
repaired it completely, and stopped up with vast masses of stone the
hole DantГғВЁs had partly filled in. But for this precaution, which, it
will be remembered, the abbГғВ© had made to Edmond, the misfortune would
have been still greater, for their attempt to escape would have been
detected, and they would undoubtedly have been separated. Thus a new, a
stronger, and more inexorable barrier was interposed to cut off the
realization of their hopes.

ГўВҖВңYou see,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, with an air of sorrowful resignation, to
Faria, ГўВҖВңthat God deems it right to take from me any claim to merit for
what you call my devotion to you. I have promised to remain forever
with you, and now I could not break my promise if I would. The treasure
will be no more mine than yours, and neither of us will quit this
prison. But my real treasure is not that, my dear friend, which awaits
me beneath the sombre rocks of Monte Cristo, it is your presence, our
living together five or six hours a day, in spite of our jailers; it is
the rays of intelligence you have elicited from my brain, the languages
you have implanted in my memory, and which have taken root there with
all their philological ramifications. These different sciences that you
have made so easy to me by the depth of the knowledge you possess of
them, and the clearness of the principles to which you have reduced
themГўВҖВ”this is my treasure, my beloved friend, and with this you have
made me rich and happy. Believe me, and take comfort, this is better
for me than tons of gold and cases of diamonds, even were they not as
problematical as the clouds we see in the morning floating over the
sea, which we take for _terra firma_, and which evaporate and vanish as
we draw near to them. To have you as long as possible near me, to hear
your eloquent speech,ГўВҖВ”which embellishes my mind, strengthens my soul,
and makes my whole frame capable of great and terrible things, if I
should ever be free,ГўВҖВ”so fills my whole existence, that the despair to
which I was just on the point of yielding when I knew you, has no
longer any hold over me; and thisГўВҖВ”this is my fortuneГўВҖВ”not chimerical,
but actual. I owe you my real good, my present happiness; and all the
sovereigns of the earth, even CГғВҰsar Borgia himself, could not deprive
me of this.ГўВҖВқ

Thus, if not actually happy, yet the days these two unfortunates passed
together went quickly. Faria, who for so long a time had kept silence
as to the treasure, now perpetually talked of it. As he had prophesied
would be the case, he remained paralyzed in the right arm and the left
leg, and had given up all hope of ever enjoying it himself. But he was
continually thinking over some means of escape for his young companion,
and anticipating the pleasure he would enjoy. For fear the letter might
be some day lost or stolen, he compelled DantГғВЁs to learn it by heart;
and DantГғВЁs knew it from the first to the last word. Then he destroyed
the second portion, assured that if the first were seized, no one would
be able to discover its real meaning. Whole hours sometimes passed
while Faria was giving instructions to DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВ”instructions which were
to serve him when he was at liberty. Then, once free, from the day and
hour and moment when he was so, he could have but one only thought,
which was, to gain Monte Cristo by some means, and remain there alone
under some pretext which would arouse no suspicions; and once there, to
endeavor to find the wonderful caverns, and search in the appointed
spot,ГўВҖВ”the appointed spot, be it remembered, being the farthest angle in
the second opening.

In the meanwhile the hours passed, if not rapidly, at least tolerably.
Faria, as we have said, without having recovered the use of his hand
and foot, had regained all the clearness of his understanding, and had
gradually, besides the moral instructions we have detailed, taught his
youthful companion the patient and sublime duty of a prisoner, who
learns to make something from nothing. They were thus perpetually
employed,ГўВҖВ”Faria, that he might not see himself grow old; DantГғВЁs, for
fear of recalling the almost extinct past which now only floated in his
memory like a distant light wandering in the night. So life went on for
them as it does for those who are not victims of misfortune and whose
activities glide along mechanically and tranquilly beneath the eye of
Providence.

But beneath this superficial calm there were in the heart of the young
man, and perhaps in that of the old man, many repressed desires, many
stifled sighs, which found vent when Faria was left alone, and when
Edmond returned to his cell.

One night Edmond awoke suddenly, believing that he heard someone
calling him. He opened his eyes upon utter darkness. His name, or
rather a plaintive voice which essayed to pronounce his name, reached
him. He sat up in bed and a cold sweat broke out upon his brow.
Undoubtedly the call came from FariaГўВҖВҷs dungeon.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ murmured Edmond; ГўВҖВңcan it be?ГўВҖВқ

He moved his bed, drew up the stone, rushed into the passage, and
reached the opposite extremity; the secret entrance was open. By the
light of the wretched and wavering lamp, of which we have spoken,
DantГғВЁs saw the old man, pale, but yet erect, clinging to the bedstead.
His features were writhing with those horrible symptoms which he
already knew, and which had so seriously alarmed him when he saw them
for the first time.

ГўВҖВңAlas, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Faria in a resigned tone, ГўВҖВңyou understand,
do you not, and I need not attempt to explain to you?ГўВҖВқ

Edmond uttered a cry of agony, and, quite out of his senses, rushed
towards the door, exclaiming, ГўВҖВңHelp, help!ГўВҖВқ

Faria had just sufficient strength to restrain him.

ГўВҖВңSilence,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңor you are lost. We must now only think of you, my
dear friend, and so act as to render your captivity supportable or your
flight possible. It would require years to do again what I have done
here, and the results would be instantly destroyed if our jailers knew
we had communicated with each other. Besides, be assured, my dear
Edmond, the dungeon I am about to leave will not long remain empty;
some other unfortunate being will soon take my place, and to him you
will appear like an angel of salvation. Perhaps he will be young,
strong, and enduring, like yourself, and will aid you in your escape,
while I have been but a hindrance. You will no longer have half a dead
body tied to you as a drag to all your movements. At length Providence
has done something for you; he restores to you more than he takes away,
and it was time I should die.ГўВҖВқ

Edmond could only clasp his hands and exclaim, ГўВҖВңOh, my friend, my
friend, speak not thus!ГўВҖВқ and then resuming all his presence of mind,
which had for a moment staggered under this blow, and his strength,
which had failed at the words of the old man, he said, ГўВҖВңOh, I have
saved you once, and I will save you a second time!ГўВҖВқ And raising the
foot of the bed, he drew out the phial, still a third filled with the
red liquor.

ГўВҖВңSee,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңthere remains still some of the magic draught.
Quick, quick! tell me what I must do this time; are there any fresh
instructions? Speak, my friend; I listen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is not a hope,ГўВҖВқ replied Faria, shaking his head, ГўВҖВңbut no matter;
God wills it that man whom he has created, and in whose heart he has so
profoundly rooted the love of life, should do all in his power to
preserve that existence, which, however painful it may be, is yet
always so dear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, yes!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңand I tell you that I will save you
yet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, try. The cold gains upon me. I feel the blood flowing
towards my brain. These horrible chills, which make my teeth chatter
and seem to dislocate my bones, begin to pervade my whole frame; in
five minutes the malady will reach its height, and in a quarter of an
hour there will be nothing left of me but a corpse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs, his heart wrung with anguish.

ГўВҖВңDo as you did before, only do not wait so long, all the springs of
life are now exhausted in me, and death,ГўВҖВқ he continued, looking at his
paralyzed arm and leg, ГўВҖВңhas but half its work to do. If, after having
made me swallow twelve drops instead of ten, you see that I do not
recover, then pour the rest down my throat. Now lift me on my bed, for
I can no longer support myself.ГўВҖВқ

Edmond took the old man in his arms, and laid him on the bed.

ГўВҖВңAnd now, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Faria, ГўВҖВңsole consolation of my wretched
existence,ГўВҖВ”you whom Heaven gave me somewhat late, but still gave me, a
priceless gift, and for which I am most grateful,ГўВҖВ”at the moment of
separating from you forever, I wish you all the happiness and all the
prosperity you so well deserve. My son, I bless thee!ГўВҖВқ

The young man cast himself on his knees, leaning his head against the
old manГўВҖВҷs bed.

ГўВҖВңListen, now, to what I say in this my dying moment. The treasure of
the Spadas exists. God grants me the boon of vision unrestricted by
time or space. I see it in the depths of the inner cavern. My eyes
pierce the inmost recesses of the earth, and are dazzled at the sight
of so much riches. If you do escape, remember that the poor abbГғВ©, whom
all the world called mad, was not so. Hasten to Monte CristoГўВҖВ”avail
yourself of the fortuneГўВҖВ”for you have indeed suffered long enough.ГўВҖВқ

A violent convulsion attacked the old man. DantГғВЁs raised his head and
saw FariaГўВҖВҷs eyes injected with blood. It seemed as if a flow of blood
had ascended from the chest to the head.

ГўВҖВңAdieu, adieu!ГўВҖВқ murmured the old man, clasping EdmondГўВҖВҷs hand
convulsivelyГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңadieu!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВ”no, not yet,ГўВҖВқ he cried; ГўВҖВңdo not forsake me! Oh, succor him!
HelpГўВҖВ”helpГўВҖВ”help!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush! hush!ГўВҖВқ murmured the dying man, ГўВҖВңthat they may not separate us if
you save me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right. Oh, yes, yes; be assured I shall save you! Besides,
although you suffer much, you do not seem to be in such agony as you
were before.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not mistake! I suffer less because there is in me less strength to
endure. At your age we have faith in life; it is the privilege of youth
to believe and hope, but old men see death more clearly. Oh, ГўВҖВҷtis
hereГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷtis hereГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷtis overГўВҖВ”my sight is goneГўВҖВ”my senses fail! Your hand,
DantГғВЁs! Adieu! adieu!ГўВҖВқ

And raising himself by a final effort, in which he summoned all his
faculties, he said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMonte Cristo, forget not Monte Cristo!ГўВҖВқ And he
fell back on the bed.

The crisis was terrible, and a rigid form with twisted limbs, swollen
eyelids, and lips flecked with bloody foam, lay on the bed of torture,
in place of the intellectual being who so lately rested there.

DantГғВЁs took the lamp, placed it on a projecting stone above the bed,
whence its tremulous light fell with strange and fantastic ray on the
distorted countenance and motionless, stiffened body. With steady gaze
he awaited confidently the moment for administering the restorative.

When he believed that the right moment had arrived, he took the knife,
pried open the teeth, which offered less resistance than before,
counted one after the other twelve drops, and watched; the phial
contained, perhaps, twice as much more. He waited ten minutes, a
quarter of an hour, half an hour,ГўВҖВ”no change took place. Trembling, his
hair erect, his brow bathed with perspiration, he counted the seconds
by the beating of his heart. Then he thought it was time to make the
last trial, and he put the phial to the purple lips of Faria, and
without having occasion to force open his jaws, which had remained
extended, he poured the whole of the liquid down his throat.

0255m



The draught produced a galvanic effect, a violent trembling pervaded
the old manГўВҖВҷs limbs, his eyes opened until it was fearful to gaze upon
them, he heaved a sigh which resembled a shriek, and then his convulsed
body returned gradually to its former immobility, the eyes remaining
open.

Half an hour, an hour, an hour and a half elapsed, and during this
period of anguish, Edmond leaned over his friend, his hand applied to
his heart, and felt the body gradually grow cold, and the heartГўВҖВҷs
pulsation become more and more deep and dull, until at length it
stopped; the last movement of the heart ceased, the face became livid,
the eyes remained open, but the eyeballs were glazed.

It was six oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning, the dawn was just breaking, and its
feeble ray came into the dungeon, and paled the ineffectual light of
the lamp. Strange shadows passed over the countenance of the dead man,
and at times gave it the appearance of life. While the struggle between
day and night lasted, DantГғВЁs still doubted; but as soon as the daylight
gained the pre-eminence, he saw that he was alone with a corpse. Then
an invincible and extreme terror seized upon him, and he dared not
again press the hand that hung out of bed, he dared no longer to gaze
on those fixed and vacant eyes, which he tried many times to close, but
in vainГўВҖВ”they opened again as soon as shut. He extinguished the lamp,
carefully concealed it, and then went away, closing as well as he could
the entrance to the secret passage by the large stone as he descended.

It was time, for the jailer was coming. On this occasion he began his
rounds at DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ cell, and on leaving him he went on to FariaГўВҖВҷs
dungeon, taking thither breakfast and some linen. Nothing betokened
that the man knew anything of what had occurred. He went on his way.

DantГғВЁs was then seized with an indescribable desire to know what was
going on in the dungeon of his unfortunate friend. He therefore
returned by the subterraneous gallery, and arrived in time to hear the
exclamations of the turnkey, who called out for help. Other turnkeys
came, and then was heard the regular tramp of soldiers. Last of all
came the governor.

Edmond heard the creaking of the bed as they moved the corpse, heard
the voice of the governor, who asked them to throw water on the dead
manГўВҖВҷs face; and seeing that, in spite of this application, the prisoner
did not recover, they sent for the doctor. The governor then went out,
and words of pity fell on DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ listening ears, mingled with brutal
laughter.

ГўВҖВңWell, well,ГўВҖВқ said one, ГўВҖВңthe madman has gone to look after his
treasure. Good journey to him!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith all his millions, he will not have enough to pay for his shroud!ГўВҖВқ
said another.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ added a third voice, ГўВҖВңthe shrouds of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf are not
dear!ГўВҖВқ

0257m



ГўВҖВңPerhaps,ГўВҖВқ said one of the previous speakers, ГўВҖВңas he was a churchman,
they may go to some expense in his behalf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey may give him the honors of the sack.ГўВҖВқ

Edmond did not lose a word, but comprehended very little of what was
said. The voices soon ceased, and it seemed to him as if everyone had
left the cell. Still he dared not to enter, as they might have left
some turnkey to watch the dead. He remained, therefore, mute and
motionless, hardly venturing to breathe. At the end of an hour, he
heard a faint noise, which increased. It was the governor who returned,
followed by the doctor and other attendants. There was a momentГўВҖВҷs
silence,ГўВҖВ”it was evident that the doctor was examining the dead body.
The inquiries soon commenced.

The doctor analyzed the symptoms of the malady to which the prisoner
had succumbed, and declared that he was dead. Questions and answers
followed in a nonchalant manner that made DantГғВЁs indignant, for he felt
that all the world should have for the poor abbГғВ© a love and respect
equal to his own.

ГўВҖВңI am very sorry for what you tell me,ГўВҖВқ said the governor, replying to
the assurance of the doctor, ГўВҖВңthat the old man is really dead; for he
was a quiet, inoffensive prisoner, happy in his folly, and required no
watching.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ added the turnkey, ГўВҖВңthere was no occasion for watching him; he
would have stayed here fifty years, IГўВҖВҷll answer for it, without any
attempt to escape.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill,ГўВҖВқ said the governor, ГўВҖВңI believe it will be requisite,
notwithstanding your certainty, and not that I doubt your science, but
in discharge of my official duty, that we should be perfectly assured
that the prisoner is dead.ГўВҖВқ

There was a moment of complete silence, during which DantГғВЁs, still
listening, knew that the doctor was examining the corpse a second time.

ГўВҖВңYou may make your mind easy,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor; ГўВҖВңhe is dead. I will
answer for that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the governor, persisting, ГўВҖВңthat we are not
content in such cases as this with such a simple examination. In spite
of all appearances, be so kind, therefore, as to finish your duty by
fulfilling the formalities described by law.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet the irons be heated,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor; ГўВҖВңbut really it is a useless
precaution.ГўВҖВқ

This order to heat the irons made DantГғВЁs shudder. He heard hasty steps,
the creaking of a door, people going and coming, and some minutes
afterwards a turnkey entered, saying:

ГўВҖВңHere is the brazier, lighted.ГўВҖВқ

There was a momentГўВҖВҷs silence, and then was heard the crackling of
burning flesh, of which the peculiar and nauseous smell penetrated even
behind the wall where DantГғВЁs was listening in horror. The perspiration
poured forth upon the young manГўВҖВҷs brow, and he felt as if he should
faint.

ГўВҖВңYou see, sir, he is really dead,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor; ГўВҖВңthis burn in the
heel is decisive. The poor fool is cured of his folly, and delivered
from his captivity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWasnГўВҖВҷt his name Faria?ГўВҖВқ inquired one of the officers who accompanied
the governor.

0259m



ГўВҖВңYes, sir; and, as he said, it was an ancient name. He was, too, very
learned, and rational enough on all points which did not relate to his
treasure; but on that, indeed, he was intractable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is the sort of malady which we call monomania,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor.

ГўВҖВңYou had never anything to complain of?ГўВҖВқ said the governor to the
jailer who had charge of the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңNever, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the jailer, ГўВҖВңnever; on the contrary, he sometimes
amused me very much by telling me stories. One day, too, when my wife
was ill, he gave me a prescription which cured her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, ah!ГўВҖВқ said the doctor, ГўВҖВңI did not know that I had a rival; but I
hope, governor, that you will show him all proper respect in
consequence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, make your mind easy, he shall be decently interred in the
newest sack we can find. Will that satisfy you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMust this last formality take place in your presence, sir?ГўВҖВқ inquired a
turnkey.

ГўВҖВңCertainly. But make hasteГўВҖВ”I cannot stay here all day.ГўВҖВқ Other
footsteps, going and coming, were now heard, and a moment afterwards
the noise of rustling canvas reached DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ ears, the bed creaked, and
the heavy footfall of a man who lifts a weight sounded on the floor;
then the bed again creaked under the weight deposited upon it.

ГўВҖВңThis evening,ГўВҖВқ said the governor.

ГўВҖВңWill there be any mass?ГўВҖВқ asked one of the attendants.

ГўВҖВңThat is impossible,ГўВҖВқ replied the governor. ГўВҖВңThe chaplain of the
chГғВўteau came to me yesterday to beg for leave of absence, in order to
take a trip to HyГғВЁres for a week. I told him I would attend to the
prisoners in his absence. If the poor abbГғВ© had not been in such a
hurry, he might have had his requiem.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPooh, pooh;ГўВҖВқ said the doctor, with the impiety usual in persons of his
profession; ГўВҖВңhe is a churchman. God will respect his profession, and
not give the devil the wicked delight of sending him a priest.ГўВҖВқ A shout
of laughter followed this brutal jest. Meanwhile the operation of
putting the body in the sack was going on.

ГўВҖВңThis evening,ГўВҖВқ said the governor, when the task was ended.

ГўВҖВңAt what hour?ГўВҖВқ inquired a turnkey.

ГўВҖВңWhy, about ten or eleven oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall we watch by the corpse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf what use would it be? Shut the dungeon as if he were aliveГўВҖВ”that is
all.ГўВҖВқ

Then the steps retreated, and the voices died away in the distance; the
noise of the door, with its creaking hinges and bolts ceased, and a
silence more sombre than that of solitude ensued,ГўВҖВ”the silence of death,
which was all-pervasive, and struck its icy chill to the very soul of
DantГғВЁs.

Then he raised the flag-stone cautiously with his head, and looked
carefully around the chamber. It was empty, and DantГғВЁs emerged from the
tunnel.



 Chapter 20. The Cemetery of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf

On the bed, at full length, and faintly illuminated by the pale light
that came from the window, lay a sack of canvas, and under its rude
folds was stretched a long and stiffened form; it was FariaГўВҖВҷs last
winding-sheet,ГўВҖВ”a winding-sheet which, as the turnkey said, cost so
little. Everything was in readiness. A barrier had been placed between
DantГғВЁs and his old friend. No longer could Edmond look into those
wide-open eyes which had seemed to be penetrating the mysteries of
death; no longer could he clasp the hand which had done so much to make
his existence blessed. Faria, the beneficent and cheerful companion,
with whom he was accustomed to live so intimately, no longer breathed.
He seated himself on the edge of that terrible bed, and fell into
melancholy and gloomy reverie.

Alone! he was alone again! again condemned to silenceГўВҖВ”again face to
face with nothingness! Alone!ГўВҖВ”never again to see the face, never again
to hear the voice of the only human being who united him to earth! Was
not FariaГўВҖВҷs fate the better, after allГўВҖВ”to solve the problem of life at
its source, even at the risk of horrible suffering?

The idea of suicide, which his friend had driven away and kept away by
his cheerful presence, now hovered like a phantom over the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs dead
body.

ГўВҖВңIf I could die,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңI should go where he goes, and should
assuredly find him again. But how to die? It is very easy,ГўВҖВқ he went on
with a smile; ГўВҖВңI will remain here, rush on the first person that opens
the door, strangle him, and then they will guillotine me.ГўВҖВқ

But excessive grief is like a storm at sea, where the frail bark is
tossed from the depths to the top of the wave. DantГғВЁs recoiled from the
idea of so infamous a death, and passed suddenly from despair to an
ardent desire for life and liberty.

ГўВҖВңDie? oh, no,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimedГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңnot die now, after having lived and
suffered so long and so much! Die? yes, had I died years ago; but now
to die would be, indeed, to give way to the sarcasm of destiny. No, I
want to live; I shall struggle to the very last; I will yet win back
the happiness of which I have been deprived. Before I die I must not
forget that I have my executioners to punish, and perhaps, too, who
knows, some friends to reward. Yet they will forget me here, and I
shall die in my dungeon like Faria.ГўВҖВқ

As he said this, he became silent and gazed straight before him like
one overwhelmed with a strange and amazing thought. Suddenly he arose,
lifted his hand to his brow as if his brain were giddy, paced twice or
thrice round the dungeon, and then paused abruptly by the bed.

ГўВҖВңJust God!ГўВҖВқ he muttered, ГўВҖВңwhence comes this thought? Is it from thee?
Since none but the dead pass freely from this dungeon, let me take the
place of the dead!ГўВҖВқ

Without giving himself time to reconsider his decision, and, indeed,
that he might not allow his thoughts to be distracted from his
desperate resolution, he bent over the appalling shroud, opened it with
the knife which Faria had made, drew the corpse from the sack, and bore
it along the tunnel to his own chamber, laid it on his couch, tied
around its head the rag he wore at night around his own, covered it
with his counterpane, once again kissed the ice-cold brow, and tried
vainly to close the resisting eyes, which glared horribly, turned the
head towards the wall, so that the jailer might, when he brought the
evening meal, believe that he was asleep, as was his frequent custom;
entered the tunnel again, drew the bed against the wall, returned to
the other cell, took from the hiding-place the needle and thread, flung
off his rags, that they might feel only naked flesh beneath the coarse
canvas, and getting inside the sack, placed himself in the posture in
which the dead body had been laid, and sewed up the mouth of the sack
from the inside.

He would have been discovered by the beating of his heart, if by any
mischance the jailers had entered at that moment. DantГғВЁs might have
waited until the evening visit was over, but he was afraid that the
governor would change his mind, and order the dead body to be removed
earlier. In that case his last hope would have been destroyed.

Now his plans were fully made, and this is what he intended to do. If
while he was being carried out the grave-diggers should discover that
they were bearing a live instead of a dead body, DantГғВЁs did not intend
to give them time to recognize him, but with a sudden cut of the knife,
he meant to open the sack from top to bottom, and, profiting by their
alarm, escape; if they tried to catch him, he would use his knife to
better purpose.

0263m



If they took him to the cemetery and laid him in a grave, he would
allow himself to be covered with earth, and then, as it was night, the
grave-diggers could scarcely have turned their backs before he would
have worked his way through the yielding soil and escaped. He hoped
that the weight of earth would not be so great that he could not
overcome it. If he was detected in this and the earth proved too heavy,
he would be stifled, and thenГўВҖВ”so much the better, all would be over.

DantГғВЁs had not eaten since the preceding evening, but he had not
thought of hunger, nor did he think of it now. His situation was too
precarious to allow him even time to reflect on any thought but one.

The first risk that DantГғВЁs ran was, that the jailer, when he brought
him his supper at seven oГўВҖВҷclock, might perceive the change that had
been made; fortunately, twenty times at least, from misanthropy or
fatigue, DantГғВЁs had received his jailer in bed, and then the man placed
his bread and soup on the table, and went away without saying a word.
This time the jailer might not be as silent as usual, but speak to
DantГғВЁs, and seeing that he received no reply, go to the bed, and thus
discover all.

When seven oГўВҖВҷclock came, DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ agony really began. His hand placed
upon his heart was unable to redress its throbbings, while, with the
other he wiped the perspiration from his temples. From time to time
chills ran through his whole body, and clutched his heart in a grasp of
ice. Then he thought he was going to die. Yet the hours passed on
without any unusual disturbance, and DantГғВЁs knew that he had escaped
the first peril. It was a good augury.

At length, about the hour the governor had appointed, footsteps were
heard on the stairs. Edmond felt that the moment had arrived, summoned
up all his courage, held his breath, and would have been happy if at
the same time he could have repressed the throbbing of his veins. The
footstepsГўВҖВ”they were doubleГўВҖВ”paused at the doorГўВҖВ”and DantГғВЁs guessed that
the two grave-diggers had come to seek himГўВҖВ”this idea was soon converted
into certainty, when he heard the noise they made in putting down the
hand-bier.

The door opened, and a dim light reached DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ eyes through the
coarse sack that covered him; he saw two shadows approach his bed, a
third remaining at the door with a torch in its hand. The two men,
approaching the ends of the bed, took the sack by its extremities.

ГўВҖВңHeГўВҖВҷs heavy, though, for an old and thin man,ГўВҖВқ said one, as he raised
the head.

ГўВҖВңThey say every year adds half a pound to the weight of the bones,ГўВҖВқ
said another, lifting the feet.

ГўВҖВңHave you tied the knot?ГўВҖВқ inquired the first speaker.

ГўВҖВңWhat would be the use of carrying so much more weight?ГўВҖВқ was the reply,
ГўВҖВңI can do that when we get there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, youГўВҖВҷre right,ГўВҖВқ replied the companion.

ГўВҖВңWhatГўВҖВҷs the knot for?ГўВҖВқ thought DantГғВЁs.

They deposited the supposed corpse on the bier. Edmond stiffened
himself in order to play the part of a dead man, and then the party,
lighted by the man with the torch, who went first, ascended the stairs.
Suddenly he felt the fresh and sharp night air, and DantГғВЁs knew that
the mistral was blowing. It was a sensation in which pleasure and pain
were strangely mingled.

The bearers went on for twenty paces, then stopped, putting the bier
down on the ground. One of them went away, and DantГғВЁs heard his shoes
striking on the pavement.

ГўВҖВңWhere am I?ГўВҖВқ he asked himself.

ГўВҖВңReally, he is by no means a light load!ГўВҖВқ said the other bearer,
sitting on the edge of the hand-barrow.

DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ first impulse was to escape, but fortunately he did not attempt
it.

ГўВҖВңGive us a light,ГўВҖВқ said the other bearer, ГўВҖВңor I shall never find what I
am looking for.ГўВҖВқ

The man with the torch complied, although not asked in the most polite
terms.

ГўВҖВңWhat can he be looking for?ГўВҖВқ thought Edmond. ГўВҖВңThe spade, perhaps.ГўВҖВқ

An exclamation of satisfaction indicated that the grave-digger had
found the object of his search. ГўВҖВңHere it is at last,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңnot
without some trouble, though.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ was the answer, ГўВҖВңbut it has lost nothing by waiting.ГўВҖВқ

As he said this, the man came towards Edmond, who heard a heavy
metallic substance laid down beside him, and at the same moment a cord
was fastened round his feet with sudden and painful violence.

ГўВҖВңWell, have you tied the knot?ГўВҖВқ inquired the grave-digger, who was
looking on.

ГўВҖВңYes, and pretty tight too, I can tell you,ГўВҖВқ was the answer.

ГўВҖВңMove on, then.ГўВҖВқ And the bier was lifted once more, and they proceeded.

They advanced fifty paces farther, and then stopped to open a door,
then went forward again. The noise of the waves dashing against the
rocks on which the chГғВўteau is built, reached DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ ear distinctly as
they went forward.

ГўВҖВңBad weather!ГўВҖВқ observed one of the bearers; ГўВҖВңnot a pleasant night for a
dip in the sea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, yes, the abbГғВ© runs a chance of being wet,ГўВҖВқ said the other; and
then there was a burst of brutal laughter.

DantГғВЁs did not comprehend the jest, but his hair stood erect on his
head.

ГўВҖВңWell, here we are at last,ГўВҖВқ said one of them.

ГўВҖВңA little fartherГўВҖВ”a little farther,ГўВҖВқ said the other. ГўВҖВңYou know very
well that the last was stopped on his way, dashed on the rocks, and the
governor told us next day that we were careless fellows.ГўВҖВқ

They ascended five or six more steps, and then DantГғВЁs felt that they
took him, one by the head and the other by the heels, and swung him to
and fro.

ГўВҖВңOne!ГўВҖВқ said the grave-diggers, ГўВҖВңtwo! three!ГўВҖВқ

And at the same instant DantГғВЁs felt himself flung into the air like a
wounded bird, falling, falling, with a rapidity that made his blood
curdle. Although drawn downwards by the heavy weight which hastened his
rapid descent, it seemed to him as if the fall lasted for a century. At
last, with a horrible splash, he darted like an arrow into the ice-cold
water, and as he did so he uttered a shrill cry, stifled in a moment by
his immersion beneath the waves.

DantГғВЁs had been flung into the sea, and was dragged into its depths by
a thirty-six-pound shot tied to his feet.

The sea is the cemetery of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf.

0267m




 Chapter 21. The Island of Tiboulen

DantГғВЁs, although stunned and almost suffocated, had sufficient presence
of mind to hold his breath, and as his right hand (prepared as he was
for every chance) held his knife open, he rapidly ripped up the sack,
extricated his arm, and then his body; but in spite of all his efforts
to free himself from the shot, he felt it dragging him down still
lower. He then bent his body, and by a desperate effort severed the
cord that bound his legs, at the moment when it seemed as if he were
actually strangled. With a mighty leap he rose to the surface of the
sea, while the shot dragged down to the depths the sack that had so
nearly become his shroud.

DantГғВЁs waited only to get breath, and then dived, in order to avoid
being seen. When he arose a second time, he was fifty paces from where
he had first sunk. He saw overhead a black and tempestuous sky, across
which the wind was driving clouds that occasionally suffered a
twinkling star to appear; before him was the vast expanse of waters,
sombre and terrible, whose waves foamed and roared as if before the
approach of a storm. Behind him, blacker than the sea, blacker than the
sky, rose phantom-like the vast stone structure, whose projecting crags
seemed like arms extended to seize their prey, and on the highest rock
was a torch lighting two figures.

He fancied that these two forms were looking at the sea; doubtless
these strange grave-diggers had heard his cry. DantГғВЁs dived again, and
remained a long time beneath the water. This was an easy feat to him,
for he usually attracted a crowd of spectators in the bay before the
lighthouse at Marseilles when he swam there, and was unanimously
declared to be the best swimmer in the port. When he came up again the
light had disappeared.

He must now get his bearings. Ratonneau and PomГғВЁgue are the nearest
islands of all those that surround the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, but Ratonneau and
PomГғВЁgue are inhabited, as is also the islet of Daume. Tiboulen and
Lemaire were therefore the safest for DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ venture. The islands of
Tiboulen and Lemaire are a league from the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf; DantГғВЁs,
nevertheless, determined to make for them. But how could he find his
way in the darkness of the night?

At this moment he saw the light of Planier, gleaming in front of him
like a star. By leaving this light on the right, he kept the Island of
Tiboulen a little on the left; by turning to the left, therefore, he
would find it. But, as we have said, it was at least a league from the
ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf to this island. Often in prison Faria had said to him,
when he saw him idle and inactive:

ГўВҖВңDantГғВЁs, you must not give way to this listlessness; you will be
drowned if you seek to escape, and your strength has not been properly
exercised and prepared for exertion.ГўВҖВқ

These words rang in DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ ears, even beneath the waves; he hastened
to cleave his way through them to see if he had not lost his strength.
He found with pleasure that his captivity had taken away nothing of his
power, and that he was still master of that element on whose bosom he
had so often sported as a boy.

Fear, that relentless pursuer, clogged DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ efforts. He listened for
any sound that might be audible, and every time that he rose to the top
of a wave he scanned the horizon, and strove to penetrate the darkness.
He fancied that every wave behind him was a pursuing boat, and he
redoubled his exertions, increasing rapidly his distance from the
chГғВўteau, but exhausting his strength. He swam on still, and already the
terrible chГғВўteau had disappeared in the darkness. He could not see it,
but he _felt_ its presence.

An hour passed, during which DantГғВЁs, excited by the feeling of freedom,
continued to cleave the waves.

ГўВҖВңLet us see,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI have swum above an hour, but as the wind is
against me, that has retarded my speed; however, if I am not mistaken,
I must be close to Tiboulen. But what if I were mistaken?ГўВҖВқ

A shudder passed over him. He sought to tread water, in order to rest
himself; but the sea was too violent, and he felt that he could not
make use of this means of recuperation.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI will swim on until I am worn out, or the cramp
seizes me, and then I shall sink;ГўВҖВқ and he struck out with the energy of
despair.

Suddenly the sky seemed to him to become still darker and more dense,
and heavy clouds seemed to sweep down towards him; at the same time he
felt a sharp pain in his knee. He fancied for a moment that he had been
shot, and listened for the report; but he heard nothing. Then he put
out his hand, and encountered an obstacle and with another stroke knew
that he had gained the shore.

Before him rose a grotesque mass of rocks, that resembled nothing so
much as a vast fire petrified at the moment of its most fervent
combustion. It was the Island of Tiboulen. DantГғВЁs rose, advanced a few
steps, and, with a fervent prayer of gratitude, stretched himself on
the granite, which seemed to him softer than down. Then, in spite of
the wind and rain, he fell into the deep, sweet sleep of utter
exhaustion. At the expiration of an hour Edmond was awakened by the
roar of thunder. The tempest was let loose and beating the atmosphere
with its mighty wings; from time to time a flash of lightning stretched
across the heavens like a fiery serpent, lighting up the clouds that
rolled on in vast chaotic waves.

DantГғВЁs had not been deceivedГўВҖВ”he had reached the first of the two
islands, which was, in fact, Tiboulen. He knew that it was barren and
without shelter; but when the sea became more calm, he resolved to
plunge into its waves again, and swim to Lemaire, equally arid, but
larger, and consequently better adapted for concealment.

An overhanging rock offered him a temporary shelter, and scarcely had
he availed himself of it when the tempest burst forth in all its fury.
Edmond felt the trembling of the rock beneath which he lay; the waves,
dashing themselves against it, wetted him with their spray. He was
safely sheltered, and yet he felt dizzy in the midst of the warring of
the elements and the dazzling brightness of the lightning. It seemed to
him that the island trembled to its base, and that it would, like a
vessel at anchor, break moorings, and bear him off into the centre of
the storm.

He then recollected that he had not eaten or drunk for four-and-twenty
hours. He extended his hands, and drank greedily of the rainwater that
had lodged in a hollow of the rock.

As he rose, a flash of lightning, that seemed to rive the remotest
heights of heaven, illumined the darkness. By its light, between the
Island of Lemaire and Cape Croiselle, a quarter of a league distant,
DantГғВЁs saw a fishing-boat driven rapidly like a spectre before the
power of winds and waves. A second after, he saw it again, approaching
with frightful rapidity. DantГғВЁs cried at the top of his voice to warn
them of their danger, but they saw it themselves. Another flash showed
him four men clinging to the shattered mast and the rigging, while a
fifth clung to the broken rudder. The men he beheld saw him
undoubtedly, for their cries were carried to his ears by the wind.
Above the splintered mast a sail rent to tatters was waving; suddenly
the ropes that still held it gave way, and it disappeared in the
darkness of the night like a vast sea-bird.

At the same moment a violent crash was heard, and cries of distress.
DantГғВЁs from his rocky perch saw the shattered vessel, and among the
fragments the floating forms of the hapless sailors. Then all was dark
again.

DantГғВЁs ran down the rocks at the risk of being himself dashed to
pieces; he listened, he groped about, but he heard and saw nothingГўВҖВ”the
cries had ceased, and the tempest continued to rage. By degrees the
wind abated, vast gray clouds rolled towards the west, and the blue
firmament appeared studded with bright stars. Soon a red streak became
visible in the horizon, the waves whitened, a light played over them,
and gilded their foaming crests with gold. It was day.

DantГғВЁs stood mute and motionless before this majestic spectacle, as if
he now beheld it for the first time; and indeed since his captivity in
the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf he had forgotten that such scenes were ever to be
witnessed. He turned towards the fortress, and looked at both sea and
land. The gloomy building rose from the bosom of the ocean with
imposing majesty and seemed to dominate the scene. It was about five
oГўВҖВҷclock. The sea continued to get calmer.

ГўВҖВңIn two or three hours,ГўВҖВқ thought DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңthe turnkey will enter my
chamber, find the body of my poor friend, recognize it, seek for me in
vain, and give the alarm. Then the tunnel will be discovered; the men
who cast me into the sea and who must have heard the cry I uttered,
will be questioned. Then boats filled with armed soldiers will pursue
the wretched fugitive. The cannon will warn everyone to refuse shelter
to a man wandering about naked and famished. The police of Marseilles
will be on the alert by land, whilst the governor pursues me by sea. I
am cold, I am hungry. I have lost even the knife that saved me. Oh, my
God, I have suffered enough surely! Have pity on me, and do for me what
I am unable to do for myself.ГўВҖВқ

As DantГғВЁs (his eyes turned in the direction of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf)
uttered this prayer, he saw off the farther point of the Island of
PomГғВЁgue a small vessel with lateen sail skimming the sea like a gull in
search of prey; and with his sailorГўВҖВҷs eye he knew it to be a Genoese
tartan. She was coming out of Marseilles harbor, and was standing out
to sea rapidly, her sharp prow cleaving through the waves.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried Edmond, ГўВҖВңto think that in half an hour I could join her,
did I not fear being questioned, detected, and conveyed back to
Marseilles! What can I do? What story can I invent? under pretext of
trading along the coast, these men, who are in reality smugglers, will
prefer selling me to doing a good action. I must wait. But I cannotГўВҖВ”I
am starving. In a few hours my strength will be utterly exhausted;
besides, perhaps I have not been missed at the fortress. I can pass as
one of the sailors wrecked last night. My story will be accepted, for
there is no one left to contradict me.ГўВҖВқ

As he spoke, DantГғВЁs looked toward the spot where the fishing-vessel had
been wrecked, and started. The red cap of one of the sailors hung to a
point of the rock and some timbers that had formed part of the vesselГўВҖВҷs
keel, floated at the foot of the crag. In an instant DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ plan was
formed. He swam to the cap, placed it on his head, seized one of the
timbers, and struck out so as to cut across the course the vessel was
taking.

ГўВҖВңI am saved!ГўВҖВқ murmured he. And this conviction restored his strength.

He soon saw that the vessel, with the wind dead ahead, was tacking
between the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf and the tower of Planier. For an instant he
feared lest, instead of keeping in shore, she should stand out to sea;
but he soon saw that she would pass, like most vessels bound for Italy,
between the islands of Jaros and Calaseraigne.

However, the vessel and the swimmer insensibly neared one another, and
in one of its tacks the tartan bore down within a quarter of a mile of
him. He rose on the waves, making signs of distress; but no one on
board saw him, and the vessel stood on another tack. DantГғВЁs would have
shouted, but he knew that the wind would drown his voice.

It was then he rejoiced at his precaution in taking the timber, for
without it he would have been unable, perhaps, to reach the
vesselГўВҖВ”certainly to return to shore, should he be unsuccessful in
attracting attention.

DantГғВЁs, though almost sure as to what course the vessel would take, had
yet watched it anxiously until it tacked and stood towards him. Then he
advanced; but before they could meet, the vessel again changed her
course. By a violent effort he rose half out of the water, waving his
cap, and uttering a loud shout peculiar to sailors. This time he was
both seen and heard, and the tartan instantly steered towards him. At
the same time, he saw they were about to lower the boat.

An instant after, the boat, rowed by two men, advanced rapidly towards
him. DantГғВЁs let go of the timber, which he now thought to be useless,
and swam vigorously to meet them. But he had reckoned too much upon his
strength, and then he realized how serviceable the timber had been to
him. His arms became stiff, his legs lost their flexibility, and he was
almost breathless.

He shouted again. The two sailors redoubled their efforts, and one of
them cried in Italian, ГўВҖВңCourage!ГўВҖВқ

The word reached his ear as a wave which he no longer had the strength
to surmount passed over his head. He rose again to the surface,
struggled with the last desperate effort of a drowning man, uttered a
third cry, and felt himself sinking, as if the fatal cannon shot were
again tied to his feet. The water passed over his head, and the sky
turned gray. A convulsive movement again brought him to the surface. He
felt himself seized by the hair, then he saw and heard nothing. He had
fainted.

When he opened his eyes DantГғВЁs found himself on the deck of the tartan.
His first care was to see what course they were taking. They were
rapidly leaving the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf behind. DantГғВЁs was so exhausted that
the exclamation of joy he uttered was mistaken for a sigh.

As we have said, he was lying on the deck. A sailor was rubbing his
limbs with a woollen cloth; another, whom he recognized as the one who
had cried out ГўВҖВңCourage!ГўВҖВқ held a gourd full of rum to his mouth; while
the third, an old sailor, at once the pilot and captain, looked on with
that egotistical pity men feel for a misfortune that they have escaped
yesterday, and which may overtake them tomorrow.

A few drops of the rum restored suspended animation, while the friction
of his limbs restored their elasticity.

ГўВҖВңWho are you?ГўВҖВқ said the pilot in bad French.

ГўВҖВңI am,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, in bad Italian, ГўВҖВңa Maltese sailor. We were
coming from Syracuse laden with grain. The storm of last night overtook
us at Cape Morgiou, and we were wrecked on these rocks.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere do you come from?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom these rocks that I had the good luck to cling to while our
captain and the rest of the crew were all lost. I saw your vessel, and
fearful of being left to perish on the desolate island, I swam off on a
piece of wreckage to try and intercept your course. You have saved my
life, and I thank you,ГўВҖВқ continued DantГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңI was lost when one of your
sailors caught hold of my hair.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was I,ГўВҖВқ said a sailor of a frank and manly appearance; ГўВҖВңand it was
time, for you were sinking.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ returned DantГғВЁs, holding out his hand, ГўВҖВңI thank you again.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI almost hesitated, though,ГўВҖВқ replied the sailor; ГўВҖВңyou looked more like
a brigand than an honest man, with your beard six inches, and your hair
a foot long.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs recollected that his hair and beard had not been cut all the
time he was at the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI made a vow, to our Lady of the Grotto not to cut my
hair or beard for ten years if I were saved in a moment of danger; but
today the vow expires.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow what are we to do with you?ГўВҖВқ said the captain.

ГўВҖВңAlas, anything you please. My captain is dead; I have barely escaped;
but I am a good sailor. Leave me at the first port you make; I shall be
sure to find employment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know the Mediterranean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have sailed over it since my childhood.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know the best harbors?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere are few ports that I could not enter or leave with a bandage
over my eyes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI say, captain,ГўВҖВқ said the sailor who had cried ГўВҖВңCourage!ГўВҖВқ to DantГғВЁs,
ГўВҖВңif what he says is true, what hinders his staying with us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf he says true,ГўВҖВқ said the captain doubtingly. ГўВҖВңBut in his present
condition he will promise anything, and take his chance of keeping it
afterwards.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will do more than I promise,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWe shall see,ГўВҖВқ returned the other, smiling.

ГўВҖВңWhere are you going?ГўВҖВқ asked DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңTo Leghorn.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen why, instead of tacking so frequently, do you not sail nearer the
wind?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause we should run straight on to the Island of Rion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou shall pass it by twenty fathoms.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake the helm, and let us see what you know.ГўВҖВқ

The young man took the helm, felt to see if the vessel answered the
rudder promptly and seeing that, without being a first-rate sailor, she
yet was tolerably obedient.

ГўВҖВңTo the sheets,ГўВҖВқ said he. The four seamen, who composed the crew,
obeyed, while the pilot looked on. ГўВҖВңHaul taut.ГўВҖВқ

They obeyed.

ГўВҖВңBelay.ГўВҖВқ This order was also executed; and the vessel passed, as DantГғВЁs
had predicted, twenty fathoms to windward.

ГўВҖВңBravo!ГўВҖВқ said the captain.

ГўВҖВңBravo!ГўВҖВқ repeated the sailors. And they all looked with astonishment at
this man whose eye now disclosed an intelligence and his body a vigor
they had not thought him capable of showing.

ГўВҖВңYou see,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, quitting the helm, ГўВҖВңI shall be of some use to
you, at least during the voyage. If you do not want me at Leghorn, you
can leave me there, and I will pay you out of the first wages I get,
for my food and the clothes you lend me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the captain, ГўВҖВңwe can agree very well, if you are
reasonable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGive me what you give the others, and it will be all right,ГўВҖВқ returned
DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs not fair,ГўВҖВқ said the seaman who had saved DantГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңfor you know
more than we do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that to you, Jacopo?ГўВҖВқ returned the Captain. ГўВҖВңEveryone is free
to ask what he pleases.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs true,ГўВҖВқ replied Jacopo; ГўВҖВңI only make a remark.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you would do much better to find him a jacket and a pair of
trousers, if you have them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Jacopo; ГўВҖВңbut I have a shirt and a pair of trousers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is all I want,ГўВҖВқ interrupted DantГғВЁs. Jacopo dived into the hold
and soon returned with what Edmond wanted.

ГўВҖВңNow, then, do you wish for anything else?ГўВҖВқ said the patron.

ГўВҖВңA piece of bread and another glass of the capital rum I tasted, for I
have not eaten or drunk for a long time.ГўВҖВқ He had not tasted food for
forty hours. A piece of bread was brought, and Jacopo offered him the
gourd.

ГўВҖВңLarboard your helm,ГўВҖВқ cried the captain to the steersman. DantГғВЁs
glanced that way as he lifted the gourd to his mouth; then paused with
hand in mid-air.

ГўВҖВңHollo! whatГўВҖВҷs the matter at the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf?ГўВҖВқ said the captain.

A small white cloud, which had attracted DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ attention, crowned the
summit of the bastion of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf. At the same moment the faint
report of a gun was heard. The sailors looked at one another.

ГўВҖВңWhat is this?ГўВҖВқ asked the captain.

ГўВҖВңA prisoner has escaped from the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, and they are firing the
alarm gun,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs. The captain glanced at him, but he had
lifted the rum to his lips and was drinking it with so much composure,
that suspicions, if the captain had any, died away.

0277m



ГўВҖВңPretty strong rum!ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, wiping his brow with his sleeve.

ГўВҖВңAt any rate,ГўВҖВқ murmured he, ГўВҖВңif it be, so much the better, for I have
made a rare acquisition.ГўВҖВқ

0279m



Under pretence of being fatigued, DantГғВЁs asked to take the helm; the
steersman, glad to be relieved, looked at the captain, and the latter
by a sign indicated that he might abandon it to his new comrade. DantГғВЁs
could thus keep his eyes on Marseilles.

ГўВҖВңWhat is the day of the month?ГўВҖВқ asked he of Jacopo, who sat down beside
him.

ГўВҖВңThe 28th of February.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what year?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what yearГўВҖВ”you ask me in what year?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, ГўВҖВңI ask you in what year!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have forgotten then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI got such a fright last night,ГўВҖВқ replied DantГғВЁs, smiling, ГўВҖВңthat I have
almost lost my memory. I ask you what year is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe year 1829,ГўВҖВқ returned Jacopo.

It was fourteen years, day for day, since DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ arrest. He was
nineteen when he entered the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf; he was thirty-three when he
escaped. A sorrowful smile passed over his face; he asked himself what
had become of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, who must believe him dead. Then his eyes
lighted up with hatred as he thought of the three men who had caused
him so long and wretched a captivity. He renewed against Danglars,
Fernand, and Villefort the oath of implacable vengeance he had made in
his dungeon.

This oath was no longer a vain menace; for the fastest sailor in the
Mediterranean would have been unable to overtake the little tartan,
that with every stitch of canvas set was flying before the wind to
Leghorn.



 Chapter 22. The Smugglers

DantГғВЁs had not been a day on board before he had a very clear idea of
the men with whom his lot had been cast. Without having been in the
school of the AbbГғВ© Faria, the worthy master of _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ (the
name of the Genoese tartan) knew a smattering of all the tongues spoken
on the shores of that large lake called the Mediterranean, from the
Arabic to the ProvenГғВ§al, and this, while it spared him interpreters,
persons always troublesome and frequently indiscreet, gave him great
facilities of communication, either with the vessels he met at sea,
with the small boats sailing along the coast, or with the people
without name, country, or occupation, who are always seen on the quays
of seaports, and who live by hidden and mysterious means which we must
suppose to be a direct gift of Providence, as they have no visible
means of support. It is fair to assume that DantГғВЁs was on board a
smuggler.

At first the captain had received DantГғВЁs on board with a certain degree
of distrust. He was very well known to the customs officers of the
coast; and as there was between these worthies and himself a perpetual
battle of wits, he had at first thought that DantГғВЁs might be an
emissary of these industrious guardians of rights and duties, who
perhaps employed this ingenious means of learning some of the secrets
of his trade. But the skilful manner in which DantГғВЁs had handled the
lugger had entirely reassured him; and then, when he saw the light
plume of smoke floating above the bastion of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, and
heard the distant report, he was instantly struck with the idea that he
had on board his vessel one whose coming and going, like that of kings,
was accompanied with salutes of artillery. This made him less uneasy,
it must be owned, than if the new-comer had proved to be a customs
officer; but this supposition also disappeared like the first, when he
beheld the perfect tranquillity of his recruit.

Edmond thus had the advantage of knowing what the owner was, without
the owner knowing who he was; and however the old sailor and his crew
tried to ГўВҖВңpumpГўВҖВқ him, they extracted nothing more from him; he gave
accurate descriptions of Naples and Malta, which he knew as well as
Marseilles, and held stoutly to his first story. Thus the Genoese,
subtle as he was, was duped by Edmond, in whose favor his mild
demeanor, his nautical skill, and his admirable dissimulation, pleaded.
Moreover, it is possible that the Genoese was one of those shrewd
persons who know nothing but what they should know, and believe nothing
but what they should believe.

In this state of mutual understanding, they reached Leghorn. Here
Edmond was to undergo another trial; he was to find out whether he
could recognize himself, as he had not seen his own face for fourteen
years. He had preserved a tolerably good remembrance of what the youth
had been, and was now to find out what the man had become. His comrades
believed that his vow was fulfilled. As he had twenty times touched at
Leghorn, he remembered a barber in St. Ferdinand Street; he went there
to have his beard and hair cut. The barber gazed in amazement at this
man with the long, thick and black hair and beard, which gave his head
the appearance of one of TitianГўВҖВҷs portraits. At this period it was not
the fashion to wear so large a beard and hair so long; now a barber
would only be surprised if a man gifted with such advantages should
consent voluntarily to deprive himself of them. The Leghorn barber said
nothing and went to work.

When the operation was concluded, and Edmond felt that his chin was
completely smooth, and his hair reduced to its usual length, he asked
for a looking-glass. He was now, as we have said, three-and-thirty
years of age, and his fourteen yearsГўВҖВҷ imprisonment had produced a great
transformation in his appearance.

DantГғВЁs had entered the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf with the round, open, smiling face
of a young and happy man, with whom the early paths of life have been
smooth, and who anticipates a future corresponding with his past. This
was now all changed. The oval face was lengthened, his smiling mouth
had assumed the firm and marked lines which betoken resolution; his
eyebrows were arched beneath a brow furrowed with thought; his eyes
were full of melancholy, and from their depths occasionally sparkled
gloomy fires of misanthropy and hatred; his complexion, so long kept
from the sun, had now that pale color which produces, when the features
are encircled with black hair, the aristocratic beauty of the man of
the north; the profound learning he had acquired had besides diffused
over his features a refined intellectual expression; and he had also
acquired, being naturally of a goodly stature, that vigor which a frame
possesses which has so long concentrated all its force within itself.

0283m



To the elegance of a nervous and slight form had succeeded the solidity
of a rounded and muscular figure. As to his voice, prayers, sobs, and
imprecations had changed it so that at times it was of a singularly
penetrating sweetness, and at others rough and almost hoarse.

Moreover, from being so long in twilight or darkness, his eyes had
acquired the faculty of distinguishing objects in the night, common to
the hyena and the wolf. Edmond smiled when he beheld himself; it was
impossible that his best friendГўВҖВ”if, indeed, he had any friend
leftГўВҖВ”could recognize him; he could not recognize himself.

The master of _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_, who was very desirous of retaining
amongst his crew a man of EdmondГўВҖВҷs value, had offered to advance him
funds out of his future profits, which Edmond had accepted. His next
care on leaving the barberГўВҖВҷs who had achieved his first metamorphosis
was to enter a shop and buy a complete sailorГўВҖВҷs suitГўВҖВ”a garb, as we all
know, very simple, and consisting of white trousers, a striped shirt,
and a cap.

It was in this costume, and bringing back to Jacopo the shirt and
trousers he had lent him, that Edmond reappeared before the captain of
the lugger, who had made him tell his story over and over again before
he could believe him, or recognize in the neat and trim sailor the man
with thick and matted beard, hair tangled with seaweed, and body
soaking in seabrine, whom he had picked up naked and nearly drowned.
Attracted by his prepossessing appearance, he renewed his offers of an
engagement to DantГғВЁs; but DantГғВЁs, who had his own projects, would not
agree for a longer time than three months.

_La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ had a very active crew, very obedient to their
captain, who lost as little time as possible. He had scarcely been a
week at Leghorn before the hold of his vessel was filled with printed
muslins, contraband cottons, English powder, and tobacco on which the
excise had forgotten to put its mark. The master was to get all this
out of Leghorn free of duties, and land it on the shores of Corsica,
where certain speculators undertook to forward the cargo to France.

They sailed; Edmond was again cleaving the azure sea which had been the
first horizon of his youth, and which he had so often dreamed of in
prison. He left Gorgone on his right and La Pianosa on his left, and
went towards the country of Paoli and Napoleon.

The next morning going on deck, as he always did at an early hour, the
patron found DantГғВЁs leaning against the bulwarks gazing with intense
earnestness at a pile of granite rocks, which the rising sun tinged
with rosy light. It was the Island of Monte Cristo.

_La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ left it three-quarters of a league to the larboard
and kept on for Corsica. DantГғВЁs thought, as they passed so closely to
the island whose name was so interesting to him, that he had only to
leap into the sea and in half an hour be at the promised land. But then
what could he do without instruments to discover his treasure, without
arms to defend himself? Besides, what would the sailors say? What would
the patron think? He must wait.

Fortunately, DantГғВЁs had learned how to wait; he had waited fourteen
years for his liberty, and now he was free he could wait at least six
months or a year for wealth. Would he not have accepted liberty without
riches if it had been offered to him? Besides, were not those riches
chimerical?ГўВҖВ”offspring of the brain of the poor AbbГғВ© Faria, had they not
died with him? It is true, the letter of the Cardinal Spada was
singularly circumstantial, and DantГғВЁs repeated it to himself, from one
end to the other, for he had not forgotten a word.

0285m



Evening came, and Edmond saw the island tinged with the shades of
twilight, and then disappear in the darkness from all eyes but his own,
for he, with vision accustomed to the gloom of a prison, continued to
behold it last of all, for he remained alone upon deck. The next morn
broke off the coast of Aleria; all day they coasted, and in the evening
saw fires lighted on land; the position of these was no doubt a signal
for landing, for a shipГўВҖВҷs lantern was hung up at the mast-head instead
of the streamer, and they came to within a gunshot of the shore. DantГғВЁs
noticed that the captain of _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ had, as he neared the
land, mounted two small culverins, which, without making much noise,
can throw a four ounce ball a thousand paces or so.

But on this occasion the precaution was superfluous, and everything
proceeded with the utmost smoothness and politeness. Four shallops came
off with very little noise alongside the lugger, which, no doubt, in
acknowledgement of the compliment, lowered her own shallop into the
sea, and the five boats worked so well that by two oГўВҖВҷclock in the
morning all the cargo was out of _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ and on _terra
firma_. The same night, such a man of regularity was the patron of _La
Jeune AmГғВ©lie_, the profits were divided, and each man had a hundred
Tuscan livres, or about eighty francs.

But the voyage was not ended. They turned the bowsprit towards
Sardinia, where they intended to take in a cargo, which was to replace
what had been discharged. The second operation was as successful as the
first, _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ was in luck. This new cargo was destined for
the coast of the Duchy of Lucca, and consisted almost entirely of
Havana cigars, sherry, and Malaga wines.

There they had a bit of a skirmish in getting rid of the duties; the
excise was, in truth, the everlasting enemy of the patron of _La Jeune
AmГғВ©lie_. A customs officer was laid low, and two sailors wounded;
DantГғВЁs was one of the latter, a ball having touched him in the left
shoulder. DantГғВЁs was almost glad of this affray, and almost pleased at
being wounded, for they were rude lessons which taught him with what
eye he could view danger, and with what endurance he could bear
suffering. He had contemplated danger with a smile, and when wounded
had exclaimed with the great philosopher, ГўВҖВңPain, thou art not an evil.ГўВҖВқ

He had, moreover, looked upon the customs officer wounded to death,
and, whether from heat of blood produced by the encounter, or the chill
of human sentiment, this sight had made but slight impression upon him.
DantГғВЁs was on the way he desired to follow, and was moving towards the
end he wished to achieve; his heart was in a fair way of petrifying in
his bosom. Jacopo, seeing him fall, had believed him killed, and
rushing towards him raised him up, and then attended to him with all
the kindness of a devoted comrade.

This world was not then so good as Doctor Pangloss believed it, neither
was it so wicked as DantГғВЁs thought it, since this man, who had nothing
to expect from his comrade but the inheritance of his share of the
prize-money, manifested so much sorrow when he saw him fall.
Fortunately, as we have said, Edmond was only wounded, and with certain
herbs gathered at certain seasons, and sold to the smugglers by the old
Sardinian women, the wound soon closed. Edmond then resolved to try
Jacopo, and offered him in return for his attention a share of his
prize-money, but Jacopo refused it indignantly.

As a result of the sympathetic devotion which Jacopo had from the first
bestowed on Edmond, the latter was moved to a certain degree of
affection. But this sufficed for Jacopo, who instinctively felt that
Edmond had a right to superiority of positionГўВҖВ”a superiority which
Edmond had concealed from all others. And from this time the kindness
which Edmond showed him was enough for the brave seaman.

Then in the long days on board ship, when the vessel, gliding on with
security over the azure sea, required no care but the hand of the
helmsman, thanks to the favorable winds that swelled her sails, Edmond,
with a chart in his hand, became the instructor of Jacopo, as the poor
AbbГғВ© Faria had been his tutor. He pointed out to him the bearings of
the coast, explained to him the variations of the compass, and taught
him to read in that vast book opened over our heads which they call
heaven, and where God writes in azure with letters of diamonds.

And when Jacopo inquired of him, ГўВҖВңWhat is the use of teaching all these
things to a poor sailor like me?ГўВҖВқ Edmond replied, ГўВҖВңWho knows? You may
one day be the captain of a vessel. Your fellow-countryman, Bonaparte,
became emperor.ГўВҖВқ We had forgotten to say that Jacopo was a Corsican.

Two months and a half elapsed in these trips, and Edmond had become as
skilful a coaster as he had been a hardy seaman; he had formed an
acquaintance with all the smugglers on the coast, and learned all the
Masonic signs by which these half pirates recognize each other. He had
passed and re-passed his Island of Monte Cristo twenty times, but not
once had he found an opportunity of landing there.

He then formed a resolution. As soon as his engagement with the patron
of _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ ended, he would hire a small vessel on his own
accountГўВҖВ”for in his several voyages he had amassed a hundred
piastresГўВҖВ”and under some pretext land at the Island of Monte Cristo.
Then he would be free to make his researches, not perhaps entirely at
liberty, for he would be doubtless watched by those who accompanied
him. But in this world we must risk something. Prison had made Edmond
prudent, and he was desirous of running no risk whatever. But in vain
did he rack his imagination; fertile as it was, he could not devise any
plan for reaching the island without companionship.

DantГғВЁs was tossed about on these doubts and wishes, when the patron,
who had great confidence in him, and was very desirous of retaining him
in his service, took him by the arm one evening and led him to a tavern
on the Via delГўВҖВҷ Oglio, where the leading smugglers of Leghorn used to
congregate and discuss affairs connected with their trade. Already
DantГғВЁs had visited this maritime Bourse two or three times, and seeing
all these hardy free-traders, who supplied the whole coast for nearly
two hundred leagues in extent, he had asked himself what power might
not that man attain who should give the impulse of his will to all
these contrary and diverging minds. This time it was a great matter
that was under discussion, connected with a vessel laden with Turkey
carpets, stuffs of the Levant, and cashmeres. It was necessary to find
some neutral ground on which an exchange could be made, and then to try
and land these goods on the coast of France. If the venture was
successful the profit would be enormous, there would be a gain of fifty
or sixty piastres each for the crew.

The patron of _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ proposed as a place of landing the
Island of Monte Cristo, which being completely deserted, and having
neither soldiers nor revenue officers, seemed to have been placed in
the midst of the ocean since the time of the heathen Olympus by
Mercury, the god of merchants and robbers, classes of mankind which we
in modern times have separated if not made distinct, but which
antiquity appears to have included in the same category.

At the mention of Monte Cristo DantГғВЁs started with joy; he rose to
conceal his emotion, and took a turn around the smoky tavern, where all
the languages of the known world were jumbled in a _lingua franca_.

When he again joined the two persons who had been discussing the
matter, it had been decided that they should touch at Monte Cristo and
set out on the following night. Edmond, being consulted, was of opinion
that the island afforded every possible security, and that great
enterprises to be well done should be done quickly.

Nothing then was altered in the plan, and orders were given to get
under weigh next night, and, wind and weather permitting, to make the
neutral island by the following day.

0289m




 Chapter 23. The Island of Monte Cristo

Thus, at length, by one of the unexpected strokes of fortune which
sometimes befall those who have for a long time been the victims of an
evil destiny, DantГғВЁs was about to secure the opportunity he wished for,
by simple and natural means, and land on the island without incurring
any suspicion. One night more and he would be on his way.

The night was one of feverish distraction, and in its progress visions,
good and evil, passed through DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ mind. If he closed his eyes, he
saw Cardinal SpadaГўВҖВҷs letter written on the wall in characters of
flameГўВҖВ”if he slept for a moment the wildest dreams haunted his brain. He
ascended into grottos paved with emeralds, with panels of rubies, and
the roof glowing with diamond stalactites. Pearls fell drop by drop, as
subterranean waters filter in their caves. Edmond, amazed,
wonderstruck, filled his pockets with the radiant gems and then
returned to daylight, when he discovered that his prizes had all
changed into common pebbles. He then endeavored to re-enter the
marvellous grottos, but they had suddenly receded, and now the path
became a labyrinth, and then the entrance vanished, and in vain did he
tax his memory for the magic and mysterious word which opened the
splendid caverns of Ali Baba to the Arabian fisherman. All was useless,
the treasure disappeared, and had again reverted to the genii from whom
for a moment he had hoped to carry it off.

The day came at length, and was almost as feverish as the night had
been, but it brought reason to the aid of imagination, and DantГғВЁs was
then enabled to arrange a plan which had hitherto been vague and
unsettled in his brain. Night came, and with it the preparation for
departure, and these preparations served to conceal DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ agitation.
He had by degrees assumed such authority over his companions that he
was almost like a commander on board; and as his orders were always
clear, distinct, and easy of execution, his comrades obeyed him with
celerity and pleasure.

The old patron did not interfere, for he too had recognized the
superiority of DantГғВЁs over the crew and himself. He saw in the young
man his natural successor, and regretted that he had not a daughter,
that he might have bound Edmond to him by a more secure alliance. At
seven oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening all was ready, and at ten minutes past
seven they doubled the lighthouse just as the beacon was kindled. The
sea was calm, and, with a fresh breeze from the south-east, they sailed
beneath a bright blue sky, in which God also lighted up in turn his
beacon lights, each of which is a world. DantГғВЁs told them that all
hands might turn in, and he would take the helm. When the Maltese (for
so they called DantГғВЁs) had said this, it was sufficient, and all went
to their bunks contentedly.

This frequently happened. DantГғВЁs, cast from solitude into the world,
frequently experienced an imperious desire for solitude; and what
solitude is more complete, or more poetical, than that of a ship
floating in isolation on the sea during the obscurity of the night, in
the silence of immensity, and under the eye of Heaven?

Now this solitude was peopled with his thoughts, the night lighted up
by his illusions, and the silence animated by his anticipations. When
the patron awoke, the vessel was hurrying on with every sail set, and
every sail full with the breeze. They were making nearly ten knots an
hour. The Island of Monte Cristo loomed large in the horizon. Edmond
resigned the lugger to the masterГўВҖВҷs care, and went and lay down in his
hammock; but, in spite of a sleepless night, he could not close his
eyes for a moment.

Two hours afterwards he came on deck, as the boat was about to double
the Island of Elba. They were just abreast of Mareciana, and beyond the
flat but verdant Island of La Pianosa. The peak of Monte Cristo
reddened by the burning sun, was seen against the azure sky. DantГғВЁs
ordered the helmsman to put down his helm, in order to leave La Pianosa
to starboard, as he knew that he should shorten his course by two or
three knots. About five oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening the island was distinct,
and everything on it was plainly perceptible, owing to that clearness
of the atmosphere peculiar to the light which the rays of the sun cast
at its setting.

Edmond gazed very earnestly at the mass of rocks which gave out all the
variety of twilight colors, from the brightest pink to the deepest
blue; and from time to time his cheeks flushed, his brow darkened, and
a mist passed over his eyes. Never did a gamester, whose whole fortune
is staked on one cast of the die, experience the anguish which Edmond
felt in his paroxysms of hope.

Night came, and at ten oГўВҖВҷclock they anchored. _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ was
first at the rendezvous. In spite of his usual command over himself,
DantГғВЁs could not restrain his impetuosity. He was the first to jump on
shore; and had he dared, he would, like Lucius Brutus, have ГўВҖВңkissed his
mother earth.ГўВҖВқ It was dark, but at eleven oГўВҖВҷclock the moon rose in the
midst of the ocean, whose every wave she silvered, and then, ГўВҖВңascending
high,ГўВҖВқ played in floods of pale light on the rocky hills of this second
Pelion.

The island was familiar to the crew of _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_,ГўВҖВ”it was one of
her regular haunts. As to DantГғВЁs, he had passed it on his voyage to and
from the Levant, but never touched at it. He questioned Jacopo.

ГўВҖВңWhere shall we pass the night?ГўВҖВқ he inquired.

ГўВҖВңWhy, on board the tartan,ГўВҖВқ replied the sailor.

ГўВҖВңShould we not do better in the grottos?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat grottos?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, the grottosГўВҖВ”caves of the island.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know of any grottos,ГўВҖВқ replied Jacopo.

The cold sweat sprang forth on DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ brow.

ГўВҖВңWhat, are there no grottos at Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ he asked.

ГўВҖВңNone.ГўВҖВқ

For a moment DantГғВЁs was speechless; then he remembered that these caves
might have been filled up by some accident, or even stopped up, for the
sake of greater security, by Cardinal Spada. The point was, then, to
discover the hidden entrance. It was useless to search at night, and
DantГғВЁs therefore delayed all investigation until the morning. Besides,
a signal made half a league out at sea, and to which _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_
replied by a similar signal, indicated that the moment for business had
come.

The boat that now arrived, assured by the answering signal that all was
well, soon came in sight, white and silent as a phantom, and cast
anchor within a cableГўВҖВҷs length of shore.

Then the landing began. DantГғВЁs reflected, as he worked, on the shout of
joy which, with a single word, he could evoke from all these men, if he
gave utterance to the one unchanging thought that pervaded his heart;
but, far from disclosing this precious secret, he almost feared that he
had already said too much, and by his restlessness and continual
questions, his minute observations and evident preoccupation, aroused
suspicions. Fortunately, as regarded this circumstance at least, his
painful past gave to his countenance an indelible sadness, and the
glimmerings of gayety seen beneath this cloud were indeed but
transitory.

No one had the slightest suspicion; and when next day, taking a
fowling-piece, powder, and shot, DantГғВЁs declared his intention to go
and kill some of the wild goats that were seen springing from rock to
rock, his wish was construed into a love of sport, or a desire for
solitude. However, Jacopo insisted on following him, and DantГғВЁs did not
oppose this, fearing if he did so that he might incur distrust.
Scarcely, however, had they gone a quarter of a league when, having
killed a kid, he begged Jacopo to take it to his comrades, and request
them to cook it, and when ready to let him know by firing a gun. This
and some dried fruits and a flask of Monte Pulciano, was the bill of
fare.

DantГғВЁs went on, looking from time to time behind and around about him.
Having reached the summit of a rock, he saw, a thousand feet beneath
him, his companions, whom Jacopo had rejoined, and who were all busy
preparing the repast which EdmondГўВҖВҷs skill as a marksman had augmented
with a capital dish.

Edmond looked at them for a moment with the sad and gentle smile of a
man superior to his fellows.

ГўВҖВңIn two hoursГўВҖВҷ time,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthese persons will depart richer by
fifty piastres each, to go and risk their lives again by endeavoring to
gain fifty more; then they will return with a fortune of six hundred
francs, and waste this treasure in some city with the pride of sultans
and the insolence of nabobs. At this moment hope makes me despise their
riches, which seem to me contemptible. Yet perchance tomorrow deception
will so act on me, that I shall, on compulsion, consider such a
contemptible possession as the utmost happiness. Oh, no!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed
Edmond, ГўВҖВңthat will not be. The wise, unerring Faria could not be
mistaken in this one thing. Besides, it were better to die than to
continue to lead this low and wretched life.ГўВҖВқ

Thus DantГғВЁs, who but three months before had no desire but liberty had
now not liberty enough, and panted for wealth. The cause was not in
DantГғВЁs, but in Providence, who, while limiting the power of man, has
filled him with boundless desires.

Meanwhile, by a cleft between two walls of rock, following a path worn
by a torrent, and which, in all human probability, human foot had never
before trod, DantГғВЁs approached the spot where he supposed the grottos
must have existed. Keeping along the shore, and examining the smallest
object with serious attention, he thought he could trace, on certain
rocks, marks made by the hand of man.

Time, which encrusts all physical substances with its mossy mantle, as
it invests all things of the mind with forgetfulness, seemed to have
respected these signs, which apparently had been made with some degree
of regularity, and probably with a definite purpose. Occasionally the
marks were hidden under tufts of myrtle, which spread into large bushes
laden with blossoms, or beneath parasitical lichen. So Edmond had to
separate the branches or brush away the moss to know where the
guide-marks were. The sight of marks renewed EdmondГўВҖВҷs fondest hopes.
Might it not have been the cardinal himself who had first traced them,
in order that they might serve as a guide for his nephew in the event
of a catastrophe, which he could not foresee would have been so
complete. This solitary place was precisely suited to the requirements
of a man desirous of burying treasure. Only, might not these betraying
marks have attracted other eyes than those for whom they were made? and
had the dark and wondrous island indeed faithfully guarded its precious
secret?

0295m



It seemed, however, to Edmond, who was hidden from his comrades by the
inequalities of the ground, that at sixty paces from the harbor the
marks ceased; nor did they terminate at any grotto. A large round rock,
placed solidly on its base, was the only spot to which they seemed to
lead. Edmond concluded that perhaps instead of having reached the end
of the route he had only explored its beginning, and he therefore
turned round and retraced his steps.

Meanwhile his comrades had prepared the repast, had got some water from
a spring, spread out the fruit and bread, and cooked the kid. Just at
the moment when they were taking the dainty animal from the spit, they
saw Edmond springing with the boldness of a chamois from rock to rock,
and they fired the signal agreed upon. The sportsman instantly changed
his direction, and ran quickly towards them. But even while they
watched his daring progress, EdmondГўВҖВҷs foot slipped, and they saw him
stagger on the edge of a rock and disappear. They all rushed towards
him, for all loved Edmond in spite of his superiority; yet Jacopo
reached him first.

He found Edmond lying prone, bleeding, and almost senseless. He had
rolled down a declivity of twelve or fifteen feet. They poured a little
rum down his throat, and this remedy which had before been so
beneficial to him, produced the same effect as formerly. Edmond opened
his eyes, complained of great pain in his knee, a feeling of heaviness
in his head, and severe pains in his loins. They wished to carry him to
the shore; but when they touched him, although under JacopoГўВҖВҷs
directions, he declared, with heavy groans, that he could not bear to
be moved.

It may be supposed that DantГғВЁs did not now think of his dinner, but he
insisted that his comrades, who had not his reasons for fasting, should
have their meal. As for himself, he declared that he had only need of a
little rest, and that when they returned he should be easier. The
sailors did not require much urging. They were hungry, and the smell of
the roasted kid was very savory, and your tars are not very
ceremonious. An hour afterwards they returned. All that Edmond had been
able to do was to drag himself about a dozen paces forward to lean
against a moss-grown rock.

But, instead of growing easier, DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ pains appeared to increase in
violence. The old patron, who was obliged to sail in the morning in
order to land his cargo on the frontiers of Piedmont and France,
between Nice and FrГғВ©jus, urged DantГғВЁs to try and rise. Edmond made
great exertions in order to comply; but at each effort he fell back,
moaning and turning pale.

ГўВҖВңHe has broken his ribs,ГўВҖВқ said the commander, in a low voice. ГўВҖВңNo
matter; he is an excellent fellow, and we must not leave him. We will
try and carry him on board the tartan.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs declared, however, that he would rather die where he was than
undergo the agony which the slightest movement cost him.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the patron, ГўВҖВңlet what may happen, it shall never be said
that we deserted a good comrade like you. We will not go till evening.ГўВҖВқ

This very much astonished the sailors, although, not one opposed it.
The patron was so strict that this was the first time they had ever
seen him give up an enterprise, or even delay in its execution. DantГғВЁs
would not allow that any such infraction of regular and proper rules
should be made in his favor.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ he said to the patron, ГўВҖВңI was awkward, and it is just that I
pay the penalty of my clumsiness. Leave me a small supply of biscuit, a
gun, powder, and balls, to kill the kids or defend myself at need, and
a pickaxe, that I may build a shelter if you delay in coming back for
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut youГўВҖВҷll die of hunger,ГўВҖВқ said the patron.

ГўВҖВңI would rather do so,ГўВҖВқ was EdmondГўВҖВҷs reply, ГўВҖВңthan suffer the
inexpressible agonies which the slightest movement causes me.ГўВҖВқ

The patron turned towards his vessel, which was rolling on the swell in
the little harbor, and, with sails partly set, would be ready for sea
when her toilet should be completed.

ГўВҖВңWhat are we to do, Maltese?ГўВҖВқ asked the captain. ГўВҖВңWe cannot leave you
here so, and yet we cannot stay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo, go!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed DantГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңWe shall be absent at least a week,ГўВҖВқ said the patron, ГўВҖВңand then we
must run out of our course to come here and take you up again.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ said DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңif in two or three days you hail any fishing-boat,
desire them to come here to me. I will pay twenty-five piastres for my
passage back to Leghorn. If you do not come across one, return for me.ГўВҖВқ
The patron shook his head.

ГўВҖВңListen, Captain Baldi; thereГўВҖВҷs one way of settling this,ГўВҖВқ said Jacopo.
ГўВҖВңDo you go, and I will stay and take care of the wounded man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd give up your share of the venture,ГўВҖВқ said Edmond, ГўВҖВңto remain with
me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Jacopo, ГўВҖВңand without any hesitation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are a good fellow and a kind-hearted messmate,ГўВҖВқ replied Edmond,
ГўВҖВңand heaven will recompense you for your generous intentions; but I do
not wish anyone to stay with me. A day or two of rest will set me up,
and I hope I shall find among the rocks certain herbs most excellent
for bruises.ГўВҖВқ

A peculiar smile passed over DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ lips; he squeezed JacopoГўВҖВҷs hand
warmly, but nothing could shake his determination to remainГўВҖВ”and remain
alone.

The smugglers left with Edmond what he had requested and set sail, but
not without turning about several times, and each time making signs of
a cordial farewell, to which Edmond replied with his hand only, as if
he could not move the rest of his body.

Then, when they had disappeared, he said with a smile,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis strange
that it should be among such men that we find proofs of friendship and
devotion.ГўВҖВқ Then he dragged himself cautiously to the top of a rock,
from which he had a full view of the sea, and thence he saw the tartan
complete her preparations for sailing, weigh anchor, and, balancing
herself as gracefully as a water-fowl ere it takes to the wing, set
sail.

At the end of an hour she was completely out of sight; at least, it was
impossible for the wounded man to see her any longer from the spot
where he was. Then DantГғВЁs rose more agile and light than the kid among
the myrtles and shrubs of these wild rocks, took his gun in one hand,
his pickaxe in the other, and hastened towards the rock on which the
marks he had noted terminated.

ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, remembering the tale of the Arabian fisherman,
which Faria had related to him, ГўВҖВңnow, Open Sesame!ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 24. The Secret Cave

The sun had nearly reached the meridian, and his scorching rays fell
full on the rocks, which seemed themselves sensible of the heat.
Thousands of grasshoppers, hidden in the bushes, chirped with a
monotonous and dull note; the leaves of the myrtle and olive trees
waved and rustled in the wind. At every step that Edmond took he
disturbed the lizards glittering with the hues of the emerald; afar off
he saw the wild goats bounding from crag to crag. In a word, the island
was inhabited, yet Edmond felt himself alone, guided by the hand of
God.

He felt an indescribable sensation somewhat akin to dreadГўВҖВ”that dread of
the daylight which even in the desert makes us fear we are watched and
observed. This feeling was so strong that at the moment when Edmond was
about to begin his labor, he stopped, laid down his pickaxe, seized his
gun, mounted to the summit of the highest rock, and from thence gazed
round in every direction.

But it was not upon Corsica, the very houses of which he could
distinguish; or on Sardinia; or on the Island of Elba, with its
historical associations; or upon the almost imperceptible line that to
the experienced eye of a sailor alone revealed the coast of Genoa the
proud, and Leghorn the commercial, that he gazed. It was at the
brigantine that had left in the morning, and the tartan that had just
set sail, that Edmond fixed his eyes.

The first was just disappearing in the straits of Bonifacio; the other,
following an opposite direction, was about to round the Island of
Corsica.

This sight reassured him. He then looked at the objects near him. He
saw that he was on the highest point of the island,ГўВҖВ”a statue on this
vast pedestal of granite, nothing human appearing in sight, while the
blue ocean beat against the base of the island, and covered it with a
fringe of foam. Then he descended with cautious and slow step, for he
dreaded lest an accident similar to that he had so adroitly feigned
should happen in reality.

DantГғВЁs, as we have said, had traced the marks along the rocks, and he
had noticed that they led to a small creek, which was hidden like the
bath of some ancient nymph. This creek was sufficiently wide at its
mouth, and deep in the centre, to admit of the entrance of a small
vessel of the lugger class, which would be perfectly concealed from
observation.

Then following the clew that, in the hands of the AbbГғВ© Faria, had been
so skilfully used to guide him through the DГғВҰdalian labyrinth of
probabilities, he thought that the Cardinal Spada, anxious not to be
watched, had entered the creek, concealed his little barque, followed
the line marked by the notches in the rock, and at the end of it had
buried his treasure. It was this idea that had brought DantГғВЁs back to
the circular rock. One thing only perplexed Edmond, and destroyed his
theory. How could this rock, which weighed several tons, have been
lifted to this spot, without the aid of many men?

Suddenly an idea flashed across his mind. Instead of raising it,
thought he, they have lowered it. And he sprang from the rock in order
to inspect the base on which it had formerly stood.

He soon perceived that a slope had been formed, and the rock had slid
along this until it stopped at the spot it now occupied. A large stone
had served as a wedge; flints and pebbles had been inserted around it,
so as to conceal the orifice; this species of masonry had been covered
with earth, and grass and weeds had grown there, moss had clung to the
stones, myrtle-bushes had taken root, and the old rock seemed fixed to
the earth.

0301m



DantГғВЁs dug away the earth carefully, and detected, or fancied he
detected, the ingenious artifice. He attacked this wall, cemented by
the hand of time, with his pickaxe. After ten minutesГўВҖВҷ labor the wall
gave way, and a hole large enough to insert the arm was opened.

DantГғВЁs went and cut the strongest olive-tree he could find, stripped
off its branches, inserted it in the hole, and used it as a lever. But
the rock was too heavy, and too firmly wedged, to be moved by anyone
man, were he Hercules himself. DantГғВЁs saw that he must attack the
wedge. But how?

He cast his eyes around, and saw the horn full of powder which his
friend Jacopo had left him. He smiled; the infernal invention would
serve him for this purpose.

With the aid of his pickaxe, DantГғВЁs, after the manner of a labor-saving
pioneer, dug a mine between the upper rock and the one that supported
it, filled it with powder, then made a match by rolling his
handkerchief in saltpetre. He lighted it and retired.

The explosion soon followed; the upper rock was lifted from its base by
the terrific force of the powder; the lower one flew into pieces;
thousands of insects escaped from the aperture DantГғВЁs had previously
formed, and a huge snake, like the guardian demon of the treasure,
rolled himself along in darkening coils, and disappeared.

DantГғВЁs approached the upper rock, which now, without any support,
leaned towards the sea. The intrepid treasure-seeker walked round it,
and, selecting the spot from whence it appeared most susceptible to
attack, placed his lever in one of the crevices, and strained every
nerve to move the mass.

The rock, already shaken by the explosion, tottered on its base. DantГғВЁs
redoubled his efforts; he seemed like one of the ancient Titans, who
uprooted the mountains to hurl against the father of the gods. The rock
yielded, rolled over, bounded from point to point, and finally
disappeared in the ocean.

On the spot it had occupied was a circular space, exposing an iron ring
let into a square flag-stone.

DantГғВЁs uttered a cry of joy and surprise; never had a first attempt
been crowned with more perfect success. He would fain have continued,
but his knees trembled, and his heart beat so violently, and his sight
became so dim, that he was forced to pause.

This feeling lasted but for a moment. Edmond inserted his lever in the
ring and exerted all his strength; the flag-stone yielded, and
disclosed steps that descended until they were lost in the obscurity of
a subterraneous grotto.

Anyone else would have rushed on with a cry of joy. DantГғВЁs turned pale,
hesitated, and reflected.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said he to himself, ГўВҖВңbe a man. I am accustomed to adversity. I
must not be cast down by the discovery that I have been deceived. What,
then, would be the use of all I have suffered? The heart breaks when,
after having been elated by flattering hopes, it sees all its illusions
destroyed. Faria has dreamed this; the Cardinal Spada buried no
treasure here; perhaps he never came here, or if he did, CГғВҰsar Borgia,
the intrepid adventurer, the stealthy and indefatigable plunderer, has
followed him, discovered his traces, pursued them as I have done,
raised the stone, and descending before me, has left me nothing.ГўВҖВқ

He remained motionless and pensive, his eyes fixed on the gloomy
aperture that was open at his feet.

ГўВҖВңNow that I expect nothing, now that I no longer entertain the
slightest hopes, the end of this adventure becomes simply a matter of
curiosity.ГўВҖВқ And he remained again motionless and thoughtful.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes; this is an adventure worthy a place in the varied career of
that royal bandit. This fabulous event formed but a link in a long
chain of marvels. Yes, Borgia has been here, a torch in one hand, a
sword in the other, and within twenty paces, at the foot of this rock,
perhaps two guards kept watch on land and sea, while their master
descended, as I am about to descend, dispelling the darkness before his
awe-inspiring progress.ГўВҖВқ

0303m



ГўВҖВңBut what was the fate of the guards who thus possessed his secret?ГўВҖВқ
asked DantГғВЁs of himself.

ГўВҖВңThe fate,ГўВҖВқ replied he, smiling, ГўВҖВңof those who buried Alaric, and were
interred with the corpse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYet, had he come,ГўВҖВқ thought DantГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңhe would have found the treasure,
and Borgia, he who compared Italy to an artichoke, which he could
devour leaf by leaf, knew too well the value of time to waste it in
replacing this rock. I will go down.ГўВҖВқ

Then he descended, a smile on his lips, and murmuring that last word of
human philosophy, ГўВҖВңPerhaps!ГўВҖВқ

But instead of the darkness, and the thick and mephitic atmosphere he
had expected to find, DantГғВЁs saw a dim and bluish light, which, as well
as the air, entered, not merely by the aperture he had just formed, but
by the interstices and crevices of the rock which were visible from
without, and through which he could distinguish the blue sky and the
waving branches of the evergreen oaks, and the tendrils of the creepers
that grew from the rocks.

After having stood a few minutes in the cavern, the atmosphere of which
was rather warm than damp, DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ eye, habituated as it was to
darkness, could pierce even to the remotest angles of the cavern, which
was of granite that sparkled like diamonds.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ said Edmond, smiling, ГўВҖВңthese are the treasures the cardinal has
left; and the good abbГғВ©, seeing in a dream these glittering walls, has
indulged in fallacious hopes.ГўВҖВқ

But he called to mind the words of the will, which he knew by heart.
ГўВҖВңIn the farthest angle of the second opening,ГўВҖВқ said the cardinalГўВҖВҷs
will. He had only found the first grotto; he had now to seek the
second. DantГғВЁs continued his search. He reflected that this second
grotto must penetrate deeper into the island; he examined the stones,
and sounded one part of the wall where he fancied the opening existed,
masked for precautionГўВҖВҷs sake.

The pickaxe struck for a moment with a dull sound that drew out of
DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ forehead large drops of perspiration. At last it seemed to him
that one part of the wall gave forth a more hollow and deeper echo; he
eagerly advanced, and with the quickness of perception that no one but
a prisoner possesses, saw that there, in all probability, the opening
must be.

However, he, like CГғВҰsar Borgia, knew the value of time; and, in order
to avoid fruitless toil, he sounded all the other walls with his
pickaxe, struck the earth with the butt of his gun, and finding nothing
that appeared suspicious, returned to that part of the wall whence
issued the consoling sound he had before heard.

He again struck it, and with greater force. Then a singular thing
occurred. As he struck the wall, pieces of stucco similar to that used
in the ground work of arabesques broke off, and fell to the ground in
flakes, exposing a large white stone. The aperture of the rock had been
closed with stones, then this stucco had been applied, and painted to
imitate granite. DantГғВЁs struck with the sharp end of his pickaxe, which
entered someway between the interstices.

It was there he must dig.

But by some strange play of emotion, in proportion as the proofs that
Faria, had not been deceived became stronger, so did his heart give
way, and a feeling of discouragement stole over him. This last proof,
instead of giving him fresh strength, deprived him of it; the pickaxe
descended, or rather fell; he placed it on the ground, passed his hand
over his brow, and remounted the stairs, alleging to himself, as an
excuse, a desire to be assured that no one was watching him, but in
reality because he felt that he was about to faint.

The island was deserted, and the sun seemed to cover it with its fiery
glance; afar off, a few small fishing boats studded the bosom of the
blue ocean.

DantГғВЁs had tasted nothing, but he thought not of hunger at such a
moment; he hastily swallowed a few drops of rum, and again entered the
cavern.

The pickaxe that had seemed so heavy, was now like a feather in his
grasp; he seized it, and attacked the wall. After several blows he
perceived that the stones were not cemented, but had been merely placed
one upon the other, and covered with stucco; he inserted the point of
his pickaxe, and using the handle as a lever, with joy soon saw the
stone turn as if on hinges, and fall at his feet.

He had nothing more to do now, but with the iron tooth of the pickaxe
to draw the stones towards him one by one. The aperture was already
sufficiently large for him to enter, but by waiting, he could still
cling to hope, and retard the certainty of deception. At last, after
renewed hesitation, DantГғВЁs entered the second grotto.

The second grotto was lower and more gloomy than the first; the air
that could only enter by the newly formed opening had the mephitic
smell DantГғВЁs was surprised not to find in the outer cavern. He waited
in order to allow pure air to displace the foul atmosphere, and then
went on.

At the left of the opening was a dark and deep angle. But to DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ
eye there was no darkness. He glanced around this second grotto; it
was, like the first, empty.

The treasure, if it existed, was buried in this corner. The time had at
length arrived; two feet of earth removed, and DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ fate would be
decided.

He advanced towards the angle, and summoning all his resolution,
attacked the ground with the pickaxe. At the fifth or sixth blow the
pickaxe struck against an iron substance. Never did funeral knell,
never did alarm-bell, produce a greater effect on the hearer. Had
DantГғВЁs found nothing he could not have become more ghastly pale.

He again struck his pickaxe into the earth, and encountered the same
resistance, but not the same sound.

ГўВҖВңIt is a casket of wood bound with iron,ГўВҖВқ thought he.

At this moment a shadow passed rapidly before the opening; DantГғВЁs
seized his gun, sprang through the opening, and mounted the stair. A
wild goat had passed before the mouth of the cave, and was feeding at a
little distance. This would have been a favorable occasion to secure
his dinner; but DantГғВЁs feared lest the report of his gun should attract
attention.

He thought a moment, cut a branch of a resinous tree, lighted it at the
fire at which the smugglers had prepared their breakfast, and descended
with this torch.

He wished to see everything. He approached the hole he had dug, and
now, with the aid of the torch, saw that his pickaxe had in reality
struck against iron and wood. He planted his torch in the ground and
resumed his labor.

In an instant a space three feet long by two feet broad was cleared,
and DantГғВЁs could see an oaken coffer, bound with cut steel; in the
middle of the lid he saw engraved on a silver plate, which was still
untarnished, the arms of the Spada familyГўВҖВ”viz., a sword, _en pale_, on
an oval shield, like all the Italian armorial bearings, and surmounted
by a cardinalГўВҖВҷs hat.

DantГғВЁs easily recognized them, Faria had so often drawn them for him.
There was no longer any doubt: the treasure was thereГўВҖВ”no one would have
been at such pains to conceal an empty casket. In an instant he had
cleared every obstacle away, and he saw successively the lock, placed
between two padlocks, and the two handles at each end, all carved as
things were carved at that epoch, when art rendered the commonest
metals precious.

DantГғВЁs seized the handles, and strove to lift the coffer; it was
impossible. He sought to open it; lock and padlock were fastened; these
faithful guardians seemed unwilling to surrender their trust. DantГғВЁs
inserted the sharp end of the pickaxe between the coffer and the lid,
and pressing with all his force on the handle, burst open the
fastenings. The hinges yielded in their turn and fell, still holding in
their grasp fragments of the wood, and the chest was open.

0307m



Edmond was seized with vertigo; he cocked his gun and laid it beside
him. He then closed his eyes as children do in order that they may see
in the resplendent night of their own imagination more stars than are
visible in the firmament; then he re-opened them, and stood motionless
with amazement.

Three compartments divided the coffer. In the first, blazed piles of
golden coin; in the second, were ranged bars of unpolished gold, which
possessed nothing attractive save their value; in the third, Edmond
grasped handfuls of diamonds, pearls, and rubies, which, as they fell
on one another, sounded like hail against glass.

After having touched, felt, examined these treasures, Edmond rushed
through the caverns like a man seized with frenzy; he leaped on a rock,
from whence he could behold the sea. He was aloneГўВҖВ”alone with these
countless, these unheard-of treasures! Was he awake, or was it but a
dream? Was it a transient vision, or was he face to face with reality?

He would fain have gazed upon his gold, and yet he had not strength
enough; for an instant he leaned his head in his hands as if to prevent
his senses from leaving him, and then rushed madly about the rocks of
Monte Cristo, terrifying the wild goats and scaring the sea-fowls with
his wild cries and gestures; then he returned, and, still unable to
believe the evidence of his senses, rushed into the grotto, and found
himself before this mine of gold and jewels.

This time he fell on his knees, and, clasping his hands convulsively,
uttered a prayer intelligible to God alone. He soon became calmer and
more happy, for only now did he begin to realize his felicity.

He then set himself to work to count his fortune. There were a thousand
ingots of gold, each weighing from two to three pounds; then he piled
up twenty-five thousand crowns, each worth about eighty francs of our
money, and bearing the effigies of Alexander VI. and his predecessors;
and he saw that the complement was not half empty. And he measured ten
double handfuls of pearls, diamonds, and other gems, many of which,
mounted by the most famous workmen, were valuable beyond their
intrinsic worth.

DantГғВЁs saw the light gradually disappear, and fearing to be surprised
in the cavern, left it, his gun in his hand. A piece of biscuit and a
small quantity of rum formed his supper, and he snatched a few hoursГўВҖВҷ
sleep, lying over the mouth of the cave.

It was a night of joy and terror, such as this man of stupendous
emotions had already experienced twice or thrice in his lifetime.



 Chapter 25. The Unknown

Day, for which DantГғВЁs had so eagerly and impatiently waited with open
eyes, again dawned. With the first light DantГғВЁs resumed his search.
Again he climbed the rocky height he had ascended the previous evening,
and strained his view to catch every peculiarity of the landscape; but
it wore the same wild, barren aspect when seen by the rays of the
morning sun which it had done when surveyed by the fading glimmer of
eve.

Descending into the grotto, he lifted the stone, filled his pockets
with gems, put the box together as well and securely as he could,
sprinkled fresh sand over the spot from which it had been taken, and
then carefully trod down the earth to give it everywhere a uniform
appearance; then, quitting the grotto, he replaced the stone, heaping
on it broken masses of rocks and rough fragments of crumbling granite,
filling the interstices with earth, into which he deftly inserted
rapidly growing plants, such as the wild myrtle and flowering thorn,
then carefully watering these new plantations, he scrupulously effaced
every trace of footsteps, leaving the approach to the cavern as
savage-looking and untrodden as he had found it. This done, he
impatiently awaited the return of his companions. To wait at Monte
Cristo for the purpose of watching like a dragon over the almost
incalculable riches that had thus fallen into his possession satisfied
not the cravings of his heart, which yearned to return to dwell among
mankind, and to assume the rank, power, and influence which are always
accorded to wealthГўВҖВ”that first and greatest of all the forces within the
grasp of man.

On the sixth day, the smugglers returned. From a distance DantГғВЁs
recognized the rig and handling of _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_, and dragging
himself with affected difficulty towards the landing-place, he met his
companions with an assurance that, although considerably better than
when they quitted him, he still suffered acutely from his late
accident. He then inquired how they had fared in their trip. To this
question the smugglers replied that, although successful in landing
their cargo in safety, they had scarcely done so when they received
intelligence that a guard-ship had just quitted the port of Toulon and
was crowding all sail towards them. This obliged them to make all the
speed they could to evade the enemy, when they could but lament the
absence of DantГғВЁs, whose superior skill in the management of a vessel
would have availed them so materially. In fact, the pursuing vessel had
almost overtaken them when, fortunately, night came on, and enabled
them to double the Cape of Corsica, and so elude all further pursuit.
Upon the whole, however, the trip had been sufficiently successful to
satisfy all concerned; while the crew, and particularly Jacopo,
expressed great regrets that DantГғВЁs had not been an equal sharer with
themselves in the profits, which amounted to no less a sum than fifty
piastres each.

0311m



Edmond preserved the most admirable self-command, not suffering the
faintest indication of a smile to escape him at the enumeration of all
the benefits he would have reaped had he been able to quit the island;
but as _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_ had merely come to Monte Cristo to fetch him
away, he embarked that same evening, and proceeded with the captain to
Leghorn.

Arrived at Leghorn, he repaired to the house of a Jew, a dealer in
precious stones, to whom he disposed of four of his smallest diamonds
for five thousand francs each. DantГғВЁs half feared that such valuable
jewels in the hands of a poor sailor like himself might excite
suspicion; but the cunning purchaser asked no troublesome questions
concerning a bargain by which he gained a round profit of at least
eighty per cent.

The following day DantГғВЁs presented Jacopo with an entirely new vessel,
accompanying the gift by a donation of one hundred piastres, that he
might provide himself with a suitable crew and other requisites for his
outfit, upon condition that he would go at once to Marseilles for the
purpose of inquiring after an old man named Louis DantГғВЁs, residing in
the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan, and also a young woman called MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, an
inhabitant of the Catalan village.

Jacopo could scarcely believe his senses at receiving this magnificent
present, which DantГғВЁs hastened to account for by saying that he had
merely been a sailor from whim and a desire to spite his family, who
did not allow him as much money as he liked to spend; but that on his
arrival at Leghorn he had come into possession of a large fortune, left
him by an uncle, whose sole heir he was. The superior education of
DantГғВЁs gave an air of such extreme probability to this statement that
it never once occurred to Jacopo to doubt its accuracy.

The term for which Edmond had engaged to serve on board _La Jeune
AmГғВ©lie_ having expired, DantГғВЁs took leave of the captain, who at first
tried all his powers of persuasion to induce him to remain as one of
the crew, but having been told the history of the legacy, he ceased to
importune him further.

The following morning Jacopo set sail for Marseilles, with directions
from DantГғВЁs to join him at the Island of Monte Cristo.

Having seen Jacopo fairly out of the harbor, DantГғВЁs proceeded to make
his final adieus on board _La Jeune AmГғВ©lie_, distributing so liberal a
gratuity among her crew as to secure for him the good wishes of all,
and expressions of cordial interest in all that concerned him. To the
captain he promised to write when he had made up his mind as to his
future plans. Then DantГғВЁs departed for Genoa.

At the moment of his arrival a small yacht was under trial in the bay;
this yacht had been built by order of an Englishman, who, having heard
that the Genoese excelled all other builders along the shores of the
Mediterranean in the construction of fast-sailing vessels, was desirous
of possessing a specimen of their skill; the price agreed upon between
the Englishman and the Genoese builder was forty thousand francs.
DantГғВЁs, struck with the beauty and capability of the little vessel,
applied to its owner to transfer it to him, offering sixty thousand
francs, upon condition that he should be allowed to take immediate
possession. The proposal was too advantageous to be refused, the more
so as the person for whom the yacht was intended had gone upon a tour
through Switzerland, and was not expected back in less than three weeks
or a month, by which time the builder reckoned upon being able to
complete another. A bargain was therefore struck. DantГғВЁs led the owner
of the yacht to the dwelling of a Jew; retired with the latter for a
few minutes to a small back parlor, and upon their return the Jew
counted out to the shipbuilder the sum of sixty thousand francs in
bright gold pieces.

The delighted builder then offered his services in providing a suitable
crew for the little vessel, but this DantГғВЁs declined with many thanks,
saying he was accustomed to cruise about quite alone, and his principal
pleasure consisted in managing his yacht himself; the only thing the
builder could oblige him in would be to contrive a sort of secret
closet in the cabin at his bedГўВҖВҷs head, the closet to contain three
divisions, so constructed as to be concealed from all but himself. The
builder cheerfully undertook the commission, and promised to have these
secret places completed by the next day, DantГғВЁs furnishing the
dimensions and plan in accordance with which they were to be
constructed.

0313m



Two hours afterward DantГғВЁs sailed from the port of Genoa, under the
inspection of an immense crowd drawn together by curiosity to see the
rich Spanish nobleman who preferred managing his own yacht. But their
wonder was soon changed to admiration at seeing the perfect skill with
which DantГғВЁs handled the helm. The boat, indeed, seemed to be animated
with almost human intelligence, so promptly did it obey the slightest
touch; and DantГғВЁs required but a short trial of his beautiful craft to
acknowledge that the Genoese had not without reason attained their high
reputation in the art of shipbuilding.

The spectators followed the little vessel with their eyes as long as it
remained visible; they then turned their conjectures upon her probable
destination. Some insisted she was making for Corsica, others the
Island of Elba; bets were offered to any amount that she was bound for
Spain; while Africa was positively reported by many persons as her
intended course; but no one thought of Monte Cristo.

Yet thither it was that DantГғВЁs guided his vessel, and at Monte Cristo
he arrived at the close of the second day; his boat had proved herself
a first-class sailor, and had come the distance from Genoa in
thirty-five hours. DantГғВЁs had carefully noted the general appearance of
the shore, and, instead of landing at the usual place, he dropped
anchor in the little creek. The island was utterly deserted, and bore
no evidence of having been visited since he went away; his treasure was
just as he had left it.

Early on the following morning he commenced the removal of his riches,
and ere nightfall the whole of his immense wealth was safely deposited
in the compartments of the secret locker.

A week passed by. DantГғВЁs employed it in manГ…В“uvring his yacht round the
island, studying it as a skilful horseman would the animal he destined
for some important service, till at the end of that time he was
perfectly conversant with its good and bad qualities. The former DantГғВЁs
proposed to augment, the latter to remedy.

Upon the eighth day he discerned a small vessel under full sail
approaching Monte Cristo. As it drew near, he recognized it as the boat
he had given to Jacopo. He immediately signalled it. His signal was
returned, and in two hours afterwards the new-comer lay at anchor
beside the yacht.

A mournful answer awaited each of EdmondГўВҖВҷs eager inquiries as to the
information Jacopo had obtained. Old DantГғВЁs was dead, and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had
disappeared.

DantГғВЁs listened to these melancholy tidings with outward calmness; but,
leaping lightly ashore, he signified his desire to be quite alone. In a
couple of hours he returned. Two of the men from JacopoГўВҖВҷs boat came on
board the yacht to assist in navigating it, and he gave orders that she
should be steered direct to Marseilles. For his fatherГўВҖВҷs death he was
in some manner prepared; but he knew not how to account for the
mysterious disappearance of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

Without divulging his secret, DantГғВЁs could not give sufficiently clear
instructions to an agent. There were, besides, other particulars he was
desirous of ascertaining, and those were of a nature he alone could
investigate in a manner satisfactory to himself. His looking-glass had
assured him, during his stay at Leghorn, that he ran no risk of
recognition; moreover, he had now the means of adopting any disguise he
thought proper. One fine morning, then, his yacht, followed by the
little fishing-boat, boldly entered the port of Marseilles, and
anchored exactly opposite the spot from whence, on the
never-to-be-forgotten night of his departure for the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, he
had been put on board the boat destined to convey him thither.

0315m



Still DantГғВЁs could not view without a shudder the approach of a
gendarme who accompanied the officers deputed to demand his bill of
health ere the yacht was permitted to hold communication with the
shore; but with that perfect self-possession he had acquired during his
acquaintance with Faria, DantГғВЁs coolly presented an English passport he
had obtained from Leghorn, and as this gave him a standing which a
French passport would not have afforded, he was informed that there
existed no obstacle to his immediate debarkation.

The first person to attract the attention of DantГғВЁs, as he landed on
the CanebiГғВЁre, was one of the crew belonging to the _Pharaon_. Edmond
welcomed the meeting with this fellowГўВҖВ”who had been one of his own
sailorsГўВҖВ”as a sure means of testing the extent of the change which time
had worked in his own appearance. Going straight towards him, he
propounded a variety of questions on different subjects, carefully
watching the manГўВҖВҷs countenance as he did so; but not a word or look
implied that he had the slightest idea of ever having seen before the
person with whom he was then conversing.

Giving the sailor a piece of money in return for his civility, DantГғВЁs
proceeded onwards; but ere he had gone many steps he heard the man
loudly calling him to stop.

DantГғВЁs instantly turned to meet him.

ГўВҖВңI beg your pardon, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the honest fellow, in almost breathless
haste, ГўВҖВңbut I believe you made a mistake; you intended to give me a
two-franc piece, and see, you gave me a double Napoleon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, my good friend. I see that I have made a trifling mistake,
as you say; but by way of rewarding your honesty I give you another
double Napoleon, that you may drink to my health, and be able to ask
your messmates to join you.ГўВҖВқ

So extreme was the surprise of the sailor, that he was unable even to
thank Edmond, whose receding figure he continued to gaze after in
speechless astonishment. ГўВҖВңSome nabob from India,ГўВҖВқ was his comment.

DantГғВЁs, meanwhile, went on his way. Each step he trod oppressed his
heart with fresh emotion; his first and most indelible recollections
were there; not a tree, not a street, that he passed but seemed filled
with dear and cherished memories. And thus he proceeded onwards till he
arrived at the end of the Rue de Noailles, from whence a full view of
the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan was obtained. At this spot, so pregnant with fond
and filial remembrances, his heart beat almost to bursting, his knees
tottered under him, a mist floated over his sight, and had he not clung
for support to one of the trees, he would inevitably have fallen to the
ground and been crushed beneath the many vehicles continually passing
there. Recovering himself, however, he wiped the perspiration from his
brows, and stopped not again till he found himself at the door of the
house in which his father had lived.

The nasturtiums and other plants, which his father had delighted to
train before his window, had all disappeared from the upper part of the
house.

Leaning against the tree, he gazed thoughtfully for a time at the upper
stories of the shabby little house. Then he advanced to the door, and
asked whether there were any rooms to be let. Though answered in the
negative, he begged so earnestly to be permitted to visit those on the
fifth floor, that, in despite of the oft-repeated assurance of the
_concierge_ that they were occupied, DantГғВЁs succeeded in inducing the
man to go up to the tenants, and ask permission for a gentleman to be
allowed to look at them.

The tenants of the humble lodging were a young couple who had been
scarcely married a week; and seeing them, DantГғВЁs sighed heavily.
Nothing in the two small chambers forming the apartments remained as it
had been in the time of the elder DantГғВЁs; the very paper was different,
while the articles of antiquated furniture with which the rooms had
been filled in EdmondГўВҖВҷs time had all disappeared; the four walls alone
remained as he had left them.

The bed belonging to the present occupants was placed as the former
owner of the chamber had been accustomed to have his; and, in spite of
his efforts to prevent it, the eyes of Edmond were suffused in tears as
he reflected that on that spot the old man had breathed his last,
vainly calling for his son.

The young couple gazed with astonishment at the sight of their
visitorГўВҖВҷs emotion, and wondered to see the large tears silently chasing
each other down his otherwise stern and immovable features; but they
felt the sacredness of his grief, and kindly refrained from questioning
him as to its cause, while, with instinctive delicacy, they left him to
indulge his sorrow alone.

0317m



When he withdrew from the scene of his painful recollections, they both
accompanied him downstairs, reiterating their hope that he would come
again whenever he pleased, and assuring him that their poor dwelling
would ever be open to him.

As Edmond passed the door on the fourth floor, he paused to inquire
whether Caderousse the tailor still dwelt there; but he received for
reply, that the person in question had got into difficulties, and at
the present time kept a small inn on the route from Bellegarde to
Beaucaire.

Having obtained the address of the person to whom the house in the
AllГғВ©es de Meilhan belonged, DantГғВЁs next proceeded thither, and, under
the name of Lord Wilmore (the name and title inscribed on his
passport), purchased the small dwelling for the sum of twenty-five
thousand francs, at least ten thousand more than it was worth; but had
its owner asked half a million, it would unhesitatingly have been
given.

The very same day the occupants of the apartments on the fifth floor of
the house, now become the property of DantГғВЁs, were duly informed by the
notary who had arranged the necessary transfer of deeds, etc., that the
new landlord gave them their choice of any of the rooms in the house,
without the least augmentation of rent, upon condition of their giving
instant possession of the two small chambers they at present inhabited.

This strange event aroused great wonder and curiosity in the
neighborhood of the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan, and a multitude of theories were
afloat, none of which was anywhere near the truth. But what raised
public astonishment to a climax, and set all conjecture at defiance,
was the knowledge that the same stranger who had in the morning visited
the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan had been seen in the evening walking in the
little village of the Catalans, and afterwards observed to enter a poor
fishermanГўВҖВҷs hut, and to pass more than an hour in inquiring after
persons who had either been dead or gone away for more than fifteen or
sixteen years.

But on the following day the family from whom all these particulars had
been asked received a handsome present, consisting of an entirely new
fishing-boat, with two seines and a tender.

The delighted recipients of these munificent gifts would gladly have
poured out their thanks to their generous benefactor, but they had seen
him, upon quitting the hut, merely give some orders to a sailor, and
then springing lightly on horseback, leave Marseilles by the Porte
dГўВҖВҷAix.



 Chapter 26. The Pont du Gard Inn

Such of my readers as have made a pedestrian excursion to the south of
France may perchance have noticed, about midway between the town of
Beaucaire and the village of Bellegarde,ГўВҖВ”a little nearer to the former
than to the latter,ГўВҖВ”a small roadside inn, from the front of which hung,
creaking and flapping in the wind, a sheet of tin covered with a
grotesque representation of the Pont du Gard. This modern place of
entertainment stood on the left-hand side of the post road, and backed
upon the RhГғВҙne. It also boasted of what in Languedoc is styled a
garden, consisting of a small plot of ground, on the side opposite to
the main entrance reserved for the reception of guests. A few dingy
olives and stunted fig-trees struggled hard for existence, but their
withered dusty foliage abundantly proved how unequal was the conflict.
Between these sickly shrubs grew a scanty supply of garlic, tomatoes,
and eschalots; while, lone and solitary, like a forgotten sentinel, a
tall pine raised its melancholy head in one of the corners of this
unattractive spot, and displayed its flexible stem and fan-shaped
summit dried and cracked by the fierce heat of the sub-tropical sun.

All these trees, great or small, were turned in the direction to which
the Mistral blows, one of the three curses of Provence, the others
being the Durance and the Parliament.

In the surrounding plain, which more resembled a dusty lake than solid
ground, were scattered a few miserable stalks of wheat, the effect, no
doubt, of a curious desire on the part of the agriculturists of the
country to see whether such a thing as the raising of grain in those
parched regions was practicable. Each stalk served as a perch for a
grasshopper, which regaled the passers-by through this Egyptian scene
with its strident, monotonous note.

For about seven or eight years the little tavern had been kept by a man
and his wife, with two servants,ГўВҖВ”a chambermaid named Trinette, and a
hostler called Pecaud. This small staff was quite equal to all the
requirements, for a canal between Beaucaire and Aiguemortes had
revolutionized transportation by substituting boats for the cart and
the stagecoach. And, as though to add to the daily misery which this
prosperous canal inflicted on the unfortunate innkeeper, whose utter
ruin it was fast accomplishing, it was situated between the RhГғВҙne from
which it had its source and the post-road it had depleted, not a
hundred steps from the inn, of which we have given a brief but faithful
description.

The innkeeper himself was a man of from forty to fifty-five years of
age, tall, strong, and bony, a perfect specimen of the natives of those
southern latitudes; he had dark, sparkling, and deep-set eyes, hooked
nose, and teeth white as those of a carnivorous animal; his hair, like
his beard, which he wore under his chin, was thick and curly, and in
spite of his age but slightly interspersed with a few silvery threads.
His naturally dark complexion had assumed a still further shade of
brown from the habit the unfortunate man had acquired of stationing
himself from morning till eve at the threshold of his door, on the
lookout for guests who seldom came, yet there he stood, day after day,
exposed to the meridional rays of a burning sun, with no other
protection for his head than a red handkerchief twisted around it,
after the manner of the Spanish muleteers. This man was our old
acquaintance, Gaspard Caderousse.

His wife, on the contrary, whose maiden name had been Madeleine
Radelle, was pale, meagre, and sickly-looking. Born in the neighborhood
of Arles, she had shared in the beauty for which its women are
proverbial; but that beauty had gradually withered beneath the
devastating influence of the slow fever so prevalent among dwellers by
the ponds of Aiguemortes and the marshes of Camargue. She remained
nearly always in her second-floor chamber, shivering in her chair, or
stretched languid and feeble on her bed, while her husband kept his
daily watch at the doorГўВҖВ”a duty he performed with so much the greater
willingness, as it saved him the necessity of listening to the endless
plaints and murmurs of his helpmate, who never saw him without breaking
out into bitter invectives against fate; to all of which her husband
would calmly return an unvarying reply, in these philosophic words:

ГўВҖВңHush, La Carconte. It is GodГўВҖВҷs pleasure that things should be so.ГўВҖВқ

The sobriquet of La Carconte had been bestowed on Madeleine Radelle
from the fact that she had been born in a village, so called, situated
between Salon and Lambesc; and as a custom existed among the
inhabitants of that part of France where Caderousse lived of styling
every person by some particular and distinctive appellation, her
husband had bestowed on her the name of La Carconte in place of her
sweet and euphonious name of Madeleine, which, in all probability, his
rude guttural language would not have enabled him to pronounce.

Still, let it not be supposed that amid this affected resignation to
the will of Providence, the unfortunate innkeeper did not writhe under
the double misery of seeing the hateful canal carry off his customers
and his profits, and the daily infliction of his peevish partnerГўВҖВҷs
murmurs and lamentations.

0323m



Like other dwellers in the south, he was a man of sober habits and
moderate desires, but fond of external show, vain, and addicted to
display. During the days of his prosperity, not a festivity took place
without himself and wife being among the spectators. He dressed in the
picturesque costume worn upon grand occasions by the inhabitants of the
south of France, bearing equal resemblance to the style adopted both by
the Catalans and Andalusians; while La Carconte displayed the charming
fashion prevalent among the women of Arles, a mode of attire borrowed
equally from Greece and Arabia. But, by degrees, watch-chains,
necklaces, parti-colored scarves, embroidered bodices, velvet vests,
elegantly worked stockings, striped gaiters, and silver buckles for the
shoes, all disappeared; and Gaspard Caderousse, unable to appear abroad
in his pristine splendor, had given up any further participation in the
pomps and vanities, both for himself and wife, although a bitter
feeling of envious discontent filled his mind as the sound of mirth and
merry music from the joyous revellers reached even the miserable
hostelry to which he still clung, more for the shelter than the profit
it afforded.

Caderousse, then, was, as usual, at his place of observation before the
door, his eyes glancing listlessly from a piece of closely shaven
grassГўВҖВ”on which some fowls were industriously, though fruitlessly,
endeavoring to turn up some grain or insect suited to their palateГўВҖВ”to
the deserted road, which led away to the north and south, when he was
aroused by the shrill voice of his wife, and grumbling to himself as he
went, he mounted to her chamber, first taking care, however, to set the
entrance door wide open, as an invitation to any chance traveller who
might be passing.

At the moment Caderousse quitted his sentry-like watch before the door,
the road on which he so eagerly strained his sight was void and lonely
as a desert at midday. There it lay stretching out into one
interminable line of dust and sand, with its sides bordered by tall,
meagre trees, altogether presenting so uninviting an appearance, that
no one in his senses could have imagined that any traveller, at liberty
to regulate his hours for journeying, would choose to expose himself in
such a formidable Sahara.

Nevertheless, had Caderousse but retained his post a few minutes
longer, he might have caught a dim outline of something approaching
from the direction of Bellegarde; as the moving object drew nearer,
he would easily have perceived that it consisted of a man and horse,
between whom the kindest and most amiable understanding appeared
to exist. The horse was of Hungarian breed, and ambled along at an
easy pace. His rider was a priest, dressed in black, and wearing a
three-cornered hat; and, despite of the ardent rays of a noonday sun,
the pair came on with a fair degree of rapidity.

Having arrived before the Pont du Gard, the horse stopped, but whether
for his own pleasure or that of his rider would have been difficult to
say. However that might have been, the priest, dismounting, led his
steed by the bridle in search of some place to which he could secure
him. Availing himself of a handle that projected from a half-fallen
door, he tied the animal safely and having drawn a red cotton
handkerchief, from his pocket, wiped away the perspiration that
streamed from his brow, then, advancing to the door, struck thrice with
the end of his iron-shod stick.

At this unusual sound, a huge black dog came rushing to meet the daring
assailant of his ordinarily tranquil abode, snarling and displaying his
sharp white teeth with a determined hostility that abundantly proved
how little he was accustomed to society. At that moment a heavy
footstep was heard descending the wooden staircase that led from the
upper floor, and, with many bows and courteous smiles, the host of the
Pont du Gard besought his guest to enter.

0319m



ГўВҖВңYou are welcome, sir, most welcome!ГўВҖВқ repeated the astonished
Caderousse. ГўВҖВңNow, then, Margotin,ГўВҖВқ cried he, speaking to the dog, ГўВҖВңwill
you be quiet? Pray donГўВҖВҷt heed him, sir!ГўВҖВ”he only barks, he never bites.
I make no doubt a glass of good wine would be acceptable this
dreadfully hot day.ГўВҖВқ Then perceiving for the first time the garb of the
traveller he had to entertain, Caderousse hastily exclaimed: ГўВҖВңA
thousand pardons! I really did not observe whom I had the honor to
receive under my poor roof. What would the abbГғВ© please to have? What
refreshment can I offer? All I have is at his service.ГўВҖВқ

The priest gazed on the person addressing him with a long and searching
gazeГўВҖВ”there even seemed a disposition on his part to court a similar
scrutiny on the part of the innkeeper; then, observing in the
countenance of the latter no other expression than extreme surprise at
his own want of attention to an inquiry so courteously worded, he
deemed it as well to terminate this dumb show, and therefore said,
speaking with a strong Italian accent, ГўВҖВңYou are, I presume, M.
Caderousse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ answered the host, even more surprised at the question than
he had been by the silence which had preceded it; ГўВҖВңI am Gaspard
Caderousse, at your service.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGaspard Caderousse,ГўВҖВқ rejoined the priest. ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВ”Christian and surname
are the same. You formerly lived, I believe in the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan,
on the fourth floor?ГўВҖВқ

0325m



ГўВҖВңI did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you followed the business of a tailor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, I was a tailor, till the trade fell off. It is so hot at
Marseilles, that really I believe that the respectable inhabitants will
in time go without any clothing whatever. But talking of heat, is there
nothing I can offer you by way of refreshment?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; let me have a bottle of your best wine, and then, with your
permission, we will resume our conversation from where we left off.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs you please, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, who, anxious not to lose the
present opportunity of finding a customer for one of the few bottles of
Cahors still remaining in his possession, hastily raised a trap-door in
the floor of the apartment they were in, which served both as parlor
and kitchen.

Upon issuing forth from his subterranean retreat at the expiration of
five minutes, he found the abbГғВ© seated upon a wooden stool, leaning his
elbow on a table, while Margotin, whose animosity seemed appeased by
the unusual command of the traveller for refreshments, had crept up to
him, and had established himself very comfortably between his knees,
his long, skinny neck resting on his lap, while his dim eye was fixed
earnestly on the travellerГўВҖВҷs face.

ГўВҖВңAre you quite alone?ГўВҖВқ inquired the guest, as Caderousse placed before
him the bottle of wine and a glass.

ГўВҖВңQuite, quite alone,ГўВҖВқ replied the manГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңor, at least, practically so,
for my poor wife, who is the only person in the house besides myself,
is laid up with illness, and unable to render me the least assistance,
poor thing!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are married, then?ГўВҖВқ said the priest, with a show of interest,
glancing round as he spoke at the scanty furnishings of the apartment.

ГўВҖВңAh, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse with a sigh, ГўВҖВңit is easy to perceive I am
not a rich man; but in this world a man does not thrive the better for
being honest.ГўВҖВқ The abbГғВ© fixed on him a searching, penetrating glance.

ГўВҖВңYes, honestГўВҖВ”I can certainly say that much for myself,ГўВҖВқ continued the
innkeeper, fairly sustaining the scrutiny of the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs gaze; ГўВҖВңI can
boast with truth of being an honest man; and,ГўВҖВқ continued he
significantly, with a hand on his breast and shaking his head, ГўВҖВңthat is
more than everyone can say nowadays.ГўВҖВқ

0327m



ГўВҖВңSo much the better for you, if what you assert be true,ГўВҖВқ said the
abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңfor I am firmly persuaded that, sooner or later, the good will
be rewarded, and the wicked punished.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSuch words as those belong to your profession,ГўВҖВқ answered Caderousse,
ГўВҖВңand you do well to repeat them; but,ГўВҖВқ added he, with a bitter
expression of countenance, ГўВҖВңone is free to believe them or not, as one
pleases.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are wrong to speak thus,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңand perhaps I may, in my
own person, be able to prove to you how completely you are in error.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat mean you?ГўВҖВқ inquired Caderousse with a look of surprise.

ГўВҖВңIn the first place, I must be satisfied that you are the person I am
in search of.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat proofs do you require?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you, in the year 1814 or 1815, know anything of a young sailor
named DantГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDantГғВЁs? Did I know poor dear Edmond? Why, Edmond DantГғВЁs and myself
were intimate friends!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Caderousse, whose countenance flushed
darkly as he caught the penetrating gaze of the abbГғВ© fixed on him,
while the clear, calm eye of the questioner seemed to dilate with
feverish scrutiny.

ГўВҖВңYou remind me,ГўВҖВқ said the priest, ГўВҖВңthat the young man concerning whom I
asked you was said to bear the name of Edmond.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSaid to bear the name!ГўВҖВқ repeated Caderousse, becoming excited and
eager. ГўВҖВңWhy, he was so called as truly as I myself bore the appellation
of Gaspard Caderousse; but tell me, I pray, what has become of poor
Edmond? Did you know him? Is he alive and at liberty? Is he prosperous
and happy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe died a more wretched, hopeless, heart-broken prisoner than the
felons who pay the penalty of their crimes at the galleys of Toulon.ГўВҖВқ

A deadly pallor followed the flush on the countenance of Caderousse,
who turned away, and the priest saw him wiping the tears from his eyes
with the corner of the red handkerchief twisted round his head.

ГўВҖВңPoor fellow, poor fellow!ГўВҖВқ murmured Caderousse. ГўВҖВңWell, there, sir, is
another proof that good people are never rewarded on this earth, and
that none but the wicked prosper. Ah,ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse, speaking
in the highly colored language of the South, ГўВҖВңthe world grows worse and
worse. Why does not God, if he really hates the wicked, as he is said
to do, send down brimstone and fire, and consume them altogether?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou speak as though you had loved this young DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ observed the
abbГғВ©, without taking any notice of his companionГўВҖВҷs vehemence.

ГўВҖВңAnd so I did,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse; ГўВҖВңthough once, I confess, I envied
him his good fortune. But I swear to you, sir, I swear to you, by
everything a man holds dear, I have, since then, deeply and sincerely
lamented his unhappy fate.ГўВҖВқ

There was a brief silence, during which the fixed, searching eye of the
abbГғВ© was employed in scrutinizing the agitated features of the
innkeeper.

ГўВҖВңYou knew the poor lad, then?ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңI was called to see him on his dying bed, that I might administer to
him the consolations of religion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd of what did he die?ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse in a choking voice.

ГўВҖВңOf what, think you, do young and strong men die in prison, when they
have scarcely numbered their thirtieth year, unless it be of
imprisonment?ГўВҖВқ Caderousse wiped away the large beads of perspiration
that gathered on his brow.

0329m



ГўВҖВңBut the strangest part of the story is,ГўВҖВқ resumed the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңthat
DantГғВЁs, even in his dying moments, swore by his crucified Redeemer,
that he was utterly ignorant of the cause of his detention.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd so he was,ГўВҖВқ murmured Caderousse. ГўВҖВңHow should he have been
otherwise? Ah, sir, the poor fellow told you the truth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd for that reason, he besought me to try and clear up a mystery he
had never been able to penetrate, and to clear his memory should any
foul spot or stain have fallen on it.ГўВҖВқ

And here the look of the abbГғВ©, becoming more and more fixed, seemed to
rest with ill-concealed satisfaction on the gloomy depression which was
rapidly spreading over the countenance of Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңA rich Englishman,ГўВҖВқ continued the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңwho had been his companion in
misfortune, but had been released from prison during the second
restoration, was possessed of a diamond of immense value; this jewel he
bestowed on DantГғВЁs upon himself quitting the prison, as a mark of his
gratitude for the kindness and brotherly care with which DantГғВЁs had
nursed him in a severe illness he underwent during his confinement.
Instead of employing this diamond in attempting to bribe his jailers,
who might only have taken it and then betrayed him to the governor,
DantГғВЁs carefully preserved it, that in the event of his getting out of
prison he might have wherewithal to live, for the sale of such a
diamond would have quite sufficed to make his fortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, I suppose,ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse, with eager, glowing looks, ГўВҖВңthat
it was a stone of immense value?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, everything is relative,ГўВҖВқ answered the abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңTo one in EdmondГўВҖВҷs
position the diamond certainly was of great value. It was estimated at
fifty thousand francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBless me!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Caderousse, ГўВҖВңfifty thousand francs! Surely the
diamond was as large as a nut to be worth all that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңit was not of such a size as that; but you
shall judge for yourself. I have it with me.ГўВҖВқ

The sharp gaze of Caderousse was instantly directed towards the
priestГўВҖВҷs garments, as though hoping to discover the location of the
treasure. Calmly drawing forth from his pocket a small box covered with
black shagreen, the abbГғВ© opened it, and displayed to the dazzled eyes
of Caderousse the sparkling jewel it contained, set in a ring of
admirable workmanship.

ГўВҖВңAnd that diamond,ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse, almost breathless with eager
admiration, ГўВҖВңyou say, is worth fifty thousand francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is, without the setting, which is also valuable,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©,
as he closed the box, and returned it to his pocket, while its
brilliant hues seemed still to dance before the eyes of the fascinated
innkeeper.

ГўВҖВңBut how comes the diamond in your possession, sir? Did Edmond make you
his heir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, merely his testamentary executor. ГўВҖВҳI once possessed four dear and
faithful friends, besides the maiden to whom I was betrothedГўВҖВҷ he said;
ГўВҖВҳand I feel convinced they have all unfeignedly grieved over my loss.
The name of one of the four friends is Caderousse.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ The innkeeper
shivered.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnother of the number,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ continued the abbГғВ©, without seeming to
notice the emotion of Caderousse, ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳis called Danglars; and the third,
in spite of being my rival, entertained a very sincere affection for
me.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

A fiendish smile played over the features of Caderousse, who was about
to break in upon the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs speech, when the latter, waving his hand,
said, ГўВҖВңAllow me to finish first, and then if you have any observations
to make, you can do so afterwards. ГўВҖВҳThe third of my friends, although
my rival, was much attached to me,ГўВҖВ”his name was Fernand; that of my
betrothed wasГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”Stay, stay,ГўВҖВқ continued the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңI have forgotten what
he called her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse eagerly.

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, with a stifled sigh, ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs it was.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on,ГўВҖВқ urged Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңBring me a _carafe_ of water,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©.

Caderousse quickly performed the strangerГўВҖВҷs bidding; and after pouring
some into a glass, and slowly swallowing its contents, the abbГғВ©,
resuming his usual placidity of manner, said, as he placed his empty
glass on the table:

ГўВҖВңWhere did we leave off?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe name of EdmondГўВҖВҷs betrothed was MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo be sure. ГўВҖВҳYou will go to Marseilles,ГўВҖВҷ said DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВ”for you
understand, I repeat his words just as he uttered them. Do you
understand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerfectly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYou will sell this diamond; you will divide the money into five equal
parts, and give an equal portion to these good friends, the only
persons who have loved me upon earth.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut why into five parts?ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse; ГўВҖВңyou only mentioned four
persons.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause the fifth is dead, as I hear. The fifth sharer in EdmondГўВҖВҷs
bequest, was his own father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңToo true, too true!ГўВҖВқ ejaculated Caderousse, almost suffocated by the
contending passions which assailed him, ГўВҖВңthe poor old man did die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI learned so much at Marseilles,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©, making a strong
effort to appear indifferent; ГўВҖВңbut from the length of time that has
elapsed since the death of the elder DantГғВЁs, I was unable to obtain any
particulars of his end. Can you enlighten me on that point?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know who could if I could not,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңWhy, I
lived almost on the same floor with the poor old man. Ah, yes, about a
year after the disappearance of his son the poor old man died.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf what did he die?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, the doctors called his complaint gastro-enteritis, I believe; his
acquaintances say he died of grief; but I, who saw him in his dying
moments, I say he died ofГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse paused.

ГўВҖВңOf what?ГўВҖВқ asked the priest, anxiously and eagerly.

ГўВҖВңWhy, of downright starvation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStarvation!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the abbГғВ©, springing from his seat. ГўВҖВңWhy, the
vilest animals are not suffered to die by such a death as that. The
very dogs that wander houseless and homeless in the streets find some
pitying hand to cast them a mouthful of bread; and that a man, a
Christian, should be allowed to perish of hunger in the midst of other
men who call themselves Christians, is too horrible for belief. Oh, it
is impossible!ГўВҖВ”utterly impossible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat I have said, I have said,ГўВҖВқ answered Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңAnd you are a fool for having said anything about it,ГўВҖВқ said a voice
from the top of the stairs. ГўВҖВңWhy should you meddle with what does not
concern you?ГўВҖВқ

The two men turned quickly, and saw the sickly countenance of La
Carconte peering between the baluster rails; attracted by the sound of
voices, she had feebly dragged herself down the stairs, and, seated on
the lower step, head on knees, she had listened to the foregoing
conversation.

ГўВҖВңMind your own business, wife,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse sharply. ГўВҖВңThis
gentleman asks me for information, which common politeness will not
permit me to refuse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoliteness, you simpleton!ГўВҖВқ retorted La Carconte. ГўВҖВңWhat have you to do
with politeness, I should like to know? Better study a little common
prudence. How do you know the motives that person may have for trying
to extract all he can from you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI pledge you my word, madam,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңthat my intentions are
good; and that your husband can incur no risk, provided he answers me
candidly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, thatГўВҖВҷs all very fine,ГўВҖВқ retorted the woman. ГўВҖВңNothing is easier than
to begin with fair promises and assurances of nothing to fear; but when
poor, silly folks, like my husband there, have been persuaded to tell
all they know, the promises and assurances of safety are quickly
forgotten; and at some moment when nobody is expecting it, behold
trouble and misery, and all sorts of persecutions, are heaped on the
unfortunate wretches, who cannot even see whence all their afflictions
come.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, nay, my good woman, make yourself perfectly easy, I beg of you.
Whatever evils may befall you, they will not be occasioned by my
instrumentality, that I solemnly promise you.ГўВҖВқ

La Carconte muttered a few inarticulate words, then let her head again
drop upon her knees, and went into a fit of ague, leaving the two
speakers to resume the conversation, but remaining so as to be able to
hear every word they uttered. Again the abbГғВ© had been obliged to
swallow a draught of water to calm the emotions that threatened to
overpower him.

When he had sufficiently recovered himself, he said, ГўВҖВңIt appears, then,
that the miserable old man you were telling me of was forsaken by
everyone. Surely, had not such been the case, he would not have
perished by so dreadful a death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, he was not altogether forsaken,ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse, ГўВҖВңfor
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs the Catalan and Monsieur Morrel were very kind to him; but
somehow the poor old man had contracted a profound hatred for
FernandГўВҖВ”the very person,ГўВҖВқ added Caderousse with a bitter smile, ГўВҖВңthat
you named just now as being one of DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ faithful and attached
friends.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd was he not so?ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңGaspard, Gaspard!ГўВҖВқ murmured the woman, from her seat on the stairs,
ГўВҖВңmind what you are saying!ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse made no reply to these words, though evidently irritated and
annoyed by the interruption, but, addressing the abbГғВ©, said, ГўВҖВңCan a man
be faithful to another whose wife he covets and desires for himself?
But DantГғВЁs was so honorable and true in his own nature, that he
believed everybodyГўВҖВҷs professions of friendship. Poor Edmond, he was
cruelly deceived; but it was fortunate that he never knew, or he might
have found it more difficult, when on his deathbed, to pardon his
enemies. And, whatever people may say,ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse, in his
native language, which was not altogether devoid of rude poetry, ГўВҖВңI
cannot help being more frightened at the idea of the malediction of the
dead than the hatred of the living.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImbecile!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed La Carconte.

ГўВҖВңDo you, then, know in what manner Fernand injured DantГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ inquired
the abbГғВ© of Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңDo I? No one better.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSpeak out then, say what it was!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGaspard!ГўВҖВқ cried La Carconte, ГўВҖВңdo as you will; you are masterГўВҖВ”but if
you take my advice youГўВҖВҷll hold your tongue.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, wife,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt know but what youГўВҖВҷre right!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo you will say nothing?ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңWhy, what good would it do?ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse. ГўВҖВңIf the poor lad were
living, and came to me and begged that I would candidly tell which were
his true and which his false friends, why, perhaps, I should not
hesitate. But you tell me he is no more, and therefore can have nothing
to do with hatred or revenge, so let all such feeling be buried with
him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou prefer, then,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңthat I should bestow on men you say
are false and treacherous, the reward intended for faithful
friendship?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is true enough,ГўВҖВқ returned Caderousse. ГўВҖВңYou say truly, the gift of
poor Edmond was not meant for such traitors as Fernand and Danglars;
besides, what would it be to them? no more than a drop of water in the
ocean.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRemember,ГўВҖВқ chimed in La Carconte, ГўВҖВңthose two could crush you at a
single blow!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ inquired the abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңAre these persons, then, so rich and
powerful?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you not know their history?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not. Pray relate it to me!ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse seemed to reflect for a few moments, then said, ГўВҖВңNo, truly,
it would take up too much time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, my good friend,ГўВҖВқ returned the abbГғВ©, in a tone that indicated
utter indifference on his part, ГўВҖВңyou are at liberty, either to speak or
be silent, just as you please; for my own part, I respect your scruples
and admire your sentiments; so let the matter end. I shall do my duty
as conscientiously as I can, and fulfil my promise to the dying man. My
first business will be to dispose of this diamond.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, the abbГғВ© again drew the small box from his pocket, opened
it, and contrived to hold it in such a light, that a bright flash of
brilliant hues passed before the dazzled gaze of Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңWife, wife!ГўВҖВқ cried he in a hoarse voice, ГўВҖВңcome here!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDiamond!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed La Carconte, rising and descending to the chamber
with a tolerably firm step; ГўВҖВңwhat diamond are you talking about?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, did you not hear all we said?ГўВҖВқ inquired Caderousse. ГўВҖВңIt is a
beautiful diamond left by poor Edmond DantГғВЁs, to be sold, and the money
divided between his father, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, his betrothed bride, Fernand,
Danglars, and myself. The jewel is worth at least fifty thousand
francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, what a magnificent jewel!ГўВҖВқ cried the astonished woman.

ГўВҖВңThe fifth part of the profits from this stone belongs to us then, does
it not?ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңIt does,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңwith the addition of an equal division of
that part intended for the elder DantГғВЁs, which I believe myself at
liberty to divide equally with the four survivors.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd why among us four?ГўВҖВқ inquired Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңAs being the friends Edmond esteemed most faithful and devoted to
him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt call those friends who betray and ruin you,ГўВҖВқ murmured the wife
in her turn, in a low, muttering voice.

ГўВҖВңOf course not!ГўВҖВқ rejoined Caderousse quickly; ГўВҖВңno more do I, and that
was what I was observing to this gentleman just now. I said I looked
upon it as a sacrilegious profanation to reward treachery, perhaps
crime.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRemember,ГўВҖВқ answered the abbГғВ© calmly, as he replaced the jewel and its
case in the pocket of his cassock, ГўВҖВңit is your fault, not mine, that I
do so. You will have the goodness to furnish me with the address of
both Fernand and Danglars, in order that I may execute EdmondГўВҖВҷs last
wishes.ГўВҖВқ

The agitation of Caderousse became extreme, and large drops of
perspiration rolled from his heated brow. As he saw the abbГғВ© rise from
his seat and go towards the door, as though to ascertain if his horse
were sufficiently refreshed to continue his journey, Caderousse and his
wife exchanged looks of deep meaning.

0335m



ГўВҖВңThere, you see, wife,ГўВҖВқ said the former, ГўВҖВңthis splendid diamond might
all be ours, if we chose!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you believe it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, surely a man of his holy profession would not deceive us!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ replied La Carconte, ГўВҖВңdo as you like. For my part, I wash my
hands of the affair.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, she once more climbed the staircase leading to her chamber,
her body convulsed with chills, and her teeth rattling in her head, in
spite of the intense heat of the weather. Arrived at the top stair, she
turned round, and called out, in a warning tone, to her husband,
ГўВҖВңGaspard, consider well what you are about to do!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have both reflected and decided,ГўВҖВқ answered he.

La Carconte then entered her chamber, the flooring of which creaked
beneath her heavy, uncertain tread, as she proceeded towards her
armchair, into which she fell as though exhausted.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©, as he returned to the apartment below, ГўВҖВңwhat
have you made up your mind to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo tell you all I know,ГўВҖВқ was the reply.

ГўВҖВңI certainly think you act wisely in so doing,ГўВҖВқ said the priest. ГўВҖВңNot
because I have the least desire to learn anything you may please to
conceal from me, but simply that if, through your assistance, I could
distribute the legacy according to the wishes of the testator, why, so
much the better, that is all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hope it may be so,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, his face flushed with
cupidity.

ГўВҖВңI am all attention,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңStop a minute,ГўВҖВқ answered Caderousse; ГўВҖВңwe might be interrupted in the
most interesting part of my story, which would be a pity; and it is as
well that your visit hither should be made known only to ourselves.ГўВҖВқ

With these words he went stealthily to the door, which he closed, and,
by way of still greater precaution, bolted and barred it, as he was
accustomed to do at night.

During this time the abbГғВ© had chosen his place for listening at his
ease. He removed his seat into a corner of the room, where he himself
would be in deep shadow, while the light would be fully thrown on the
narrator; then, with head bent down and hands clasped, or rather
clenched together, he prepared to give his whole attention to
Caderousse, who seated himself on the little stool, exactly opposite to
him.

ГўВҖВңRemember, this is no affair of mine,ГўВҖВқ said the trembling voice of La
Carconte, as though through the flooring of her chamber she viewed the
scene that was enacting below.

ГўВҖВңEnough, enough!ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse; ГўВҖВңsay no more about it; I will
take all the consequences upon myself.ГўВҖВқ

And he began his story.



 Chapter 27. The Story

First, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңyou must make me a promise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ inquired the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңWhy, if you ever make use of the details I am about to give you, that
you will never let anyone know that it was I who supplied them; for the
persons of whom I am about to talk are rich and powerful, and if they
only laid the tips of their fingers on me, I should break to pieces
like glass.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMake yourself easy, my friend,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңI am a priest, and
confessions die in my breast. Recollect, our only desire is to carry
out, in a fitting manner, the last wishes of our friend. Speak, then,
without reserve, as without hatred; tell the truth, the whole truth; I
do not know, never may know, the persons of whom you are about to
speak; besides, I am an Italian, and not a Frenchman, and belong to
God, and not to man, and I shall shortly retire to my convent, which I
have only quitted to fulfil the last wishes of a dying man.ГўВҖВқ

This positive assurance seemed to give Caderousse a little courage.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, under these circumstances,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңI will, I
even believe I ought to undeceive you as to the friendship which poor
Edmond thought so sincere and unquestionable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBegin with his father, if you please.ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңEdmond talked
to me a great deal about the old man for whom he had the deepest love.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe history is a sad one, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, shaking his head;
ГўВҖВңperhaps you know all the earlier part of it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ answered the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңEdmond related to me everything until the
moment when he was arrested in a small cabaret close to Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt La RГғВ©serve! Oh, yes; I can see it all before me this moment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas it not his betrothal feast?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was and the feast that began so gayly had a very sorrowful ending;
a police commissary, followed by four soldiers, entered, and DantГғВЁs was
arrested.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and up to this point I know all,ГўВҖВқ said the priest. ГўВҖВңDantГғВЁs
himself only knew that which personally concerned him, for he never
beheld again the five persons I have named to you, or heard mention of
anyone of them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, when DantГғВЁs was arrested, Monsieur Morrel hastened to obtain the
particulars, and they were very sad. The old man returned alone to his
home, folded up his wedding suit with tears in his eyes, and paced up
and down his chamber the whole day, and would not go to bed at all, for
I was underneath him and heard him walking the whole night; and for
myself, I assure you I could not sleep either, for the grief of the
poor father gave me great uneasiness, and every step he took went to my
heart as really as if his foot had pressed against my breast.

ГўВҖВңThe next day MercГғВ©dГғВЁs came to implore the protection of M. de
Villefort; she did not obtain it, however, and went to visit the old
man; when she saw him so miserable and heart-broken, having passed a
sleepless night, and not touched food since the previous day, she
wished him to go with her that she might take care of him; but the old
man would not consent. ГўВҖВҳNo,ГўВҖВҷ was the old manГўВҖВҷs reply, ГўВҖВҳI will not leave
this house, for my poor dear boy loves me better than anything in the
world; and if he gets out of prison he will come and see me the first
thing, and what would he think if I did not wait here for him?ГўВҖВҷ I heard
all this from the window, for I was anxious that MercГғВ©dГғВЁs should
persuade the old man to accompany her, for his footsteps over my head
night and day did not leave me a momentГўВҖВҷs repose.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut did you not go upstairs and try to console the poor old man?ГўВҖВқ
asked the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңAh, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВңwe cannot console those who will not be
consoled, and he was one of these; besides, I know not why, but he
seemed to dislike seeing me. One night, however, I heard his sobs, and
I could not resist my desire to go up to him, but when I reached his
door he was no longer weeping but praying. I cannot now repeat to you,
sir, all the eloquent words and imploring language he made use of; it
was more than piety, it was more than grief, and I, who am no canter,
and hate the Jesuits, said then to myself, ГўВҖВҳIt is really well, and I am
very glad that I have not any children; for if I were a father and felt
such excessive grief as the old man does, and did not find in my memory
or heart all he is now saying, I should throw myself into the sea at
once, for I could not bear it.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor father!ГўВҖВқ murmured the priest.

ГўВҖВңFrom day to day he lived on alone, and more and more solitary. M.
Morrel and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs came to see him, but his door was closed; and,
although I was certain he was at home, he would not make any answer.
One day, when, contrary to his custom, he had admitted MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, and
the poor girl, in spite of her own grief and despair, endeavored to
console him, he said to her,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳBe assured, my dear daughter, he is dead;
and instead of expecting him, it is he who is awaiting us; I am quite
happy, for I am the oldest, and of course shall see him first.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңHowever well disposed a person may be, why, you see we leave off after
a time seeing persons who are in sorrow, they make one melancholy; and
so at last old DantГғВЁs was left all to himself, and I only saw from time
to time strangers go up to him and come down again with some bundle
they tried to hide; but I guessed what these bundles were, and that he
sold by degrees what he had to pay for his subsistence. At length the
poor old fellow reached the end of all he had; he owed three quartersГўВҖВҷ
rent, and they threatened to turn him out; he begged for another week,
which was granted to him. I know this, because the landlord came into
my apartment when he left his.

ГўВҖВңFor the first three days I heard him walking about as usual, but, on
the fourth I heard nothing. I then resolved to go up to him at all
risks. The door was closed, but I looked through the keyhole, and saw
him so pale and haggard, that believing him very ill, I went and told
M. Morrel and then ran on to MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. They both came immediately, M.
Morrel bringing a doctor, and the doctor said it was inflammation of
the bowels, and ordered him a limited diet. I was there, too, and I
never shall forget the old manГўВҖВҷs smile at this prescription.

ГўВҖВңFrom that time he received all who came; he had an excuse for not
eating any more; the doctor had put him on a diet.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© uttered a kind of groan.

ГўВҖВңThe story interests you, does it not, sir?ГўВҖВқ inquired Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңit is very affecting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs came again, and she found him so altered that she was even
more anxious than before to have him taken to her own home. This was M.
MorrelГўВҖВҷs wish also, who would fain have conveyed the old man against
his consent; but the old man resisted, and cried so that they were
actually frightened. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs remained, therefore, by his bedside, and
M. Morrel went away, making a sign to the Catalan that he had left his
purse on the chimney-piece; but, availing himself of the doctorГўВҖВҷs
order, the old man would not take any sustenance; at length (after nine
days of despair and fasting), the old man died, cursing those who had
caused his misery, and saying to MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВҳIf you ever see my Edmond
again, tell him I die blessing him.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© rose from his chair, made two turns round the chamber, and
pressed his trembling hand against his parched throat.

ГўВҖВңAnd you believe he diedГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf hunger, sir, of hunger,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңI am as certain of it as
that we two are Christians.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ©, with a shaking hand, seized a glass of water that was
standing by him half-full, swallowed it at one gulp, and then resumed
his seat, with red eyes and pale cheeks.

ГўВҖВңThis was, indeed, a horrid event,ГўВҖВқ said he in a hoarse voice.

ГўВҖВңThe more so, sir, as it was menГўВҖВҷs and not GodГўВҖВҷs doing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me of those men,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңand remember too,ГўВҖВқ he added in
an almost menacing tone, ГўВҖВңyou have promised to tell me everything. Tell
me, therefore, who are these men who killed the son with despair, and
the father with famine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo men jealous of him, sir; one from love, and the other from
ambition,ГўВҖВ”Fernand and Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow was this jealousy manifested? Speak on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey denounced Edmond as a Bonapartist agent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich of the two denounced him? Which was the real delinquent?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBoth, sir; one with a letter, and the other put it in the post.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where was this letter written?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt La RГғВ©serve, the day before the betrothal feast.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTwas so, thenГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷtwas so, then,ГўВҖВқ murmured the abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңOh, Faria, Faria,
how well did you judge men and things!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did you please to say, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңNothing, nothing,ГўВҖВқ replied the priest; ГўВҖВңgo on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was Danglars who wrote the denunciation with his left hand, that
his writing might not be recognized, and Fernand who put it in the
post.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the abbГғВ© suddenly, ГўВҖВңyou were there yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, astonished; ГўВҖВңwho told you I was there?ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© saw he had overshot the mark, and he added quickly,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңNo one;
but in order to have known everything so well, you must have been an
eye-witness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, true!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse in a choking voice, ГўВҖВңI was there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd did you not remonstrate against such infamy?ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңif
not, you were an accomplice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВңthey had made me drink to such an excess
that I nearly lost all perception. I had only an indistinct
understanding of what was passing around me. I said all that a man in
such a state could say; but they both assured me that it was a jest
they were carrying on, and perfectly harmless.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNext dayГўВҖВ”next day, sir, you must have seen plain enough what they had
been doing, yet you said nothing, though you were present when DantГғВЁs
was arrested.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir, I was there, and very anxious to speak; but Danglars
restrained me. ГўВҖВҳIf he should really be guilty,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳand did
really put in to the Island of Elba; if he is really charged with a
letter for the Bonapartist committee at Paris, and if they find this
letter upon him, those who have supported him will pass for his
accomplices.ГўВҖВҷ I confess I had my fears, in the state in which politics
then were, and I held my tongue. It was cowardly, I confess, but it was
not criminal.ГўВҖВқ

0341m



ГўВҖВңI understandГўВҖВ”you allowed matters to take their course, that was all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ answered Caderousse; ГўВҖВңand remorse preys on me night and
day. I often ask pardon of God, I swear to you, because this action,
the only one with which I have seriously to reproach myself in all my
life, is no doubt the cause of my abject condition. I am expiating a
moment of selfishness, and so I always say to La Carconte, when she
complains, ГўВҖВҳHold your tongue, woman; it is the will of God.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ And
Caderousse bowed his head with every sign of real repentance.

ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңyou have spoken unreservedly; and thus to
accuse yourself is to deserve pardon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnfortunately, Edmond is dead, and has not pardoned me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe did not know,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңBut he knows it all now,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Caderousse; ГўВҖВңthey say the dead
know everything.ГўВҖВқ

There was a brief silence; the abbГғВ© rose and paced up and down
pensively, and then resumed his seat.

ГўВҖВңYou have two or three times mentioned a M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңwho was
he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe owner of the _Pharaon_ and patron of DantГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what part did he play in this sad drama?ГўВҖВқ inquired the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңThe part of an honest man, full of courage and real regard. Twenty
times he interceded for Edmond. When the emperor returned, he wrote,
implored, threatened, and so energetically, that on the second
restoration he was persecuted as a Bonapartist. Ten times, as I told
you, he came to see DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ father, and offered to receive him in his
own house; and the night or two before his death, as I have already
said, he left his purse on the mantelpiece, with which they paid the
old manГўВҖВҷs debts, and buried him decently; and so EdmondГўВҖВҷs father died,
as he had lived, without doing harm to anyone. I have the purse still
by meГўВҖВ”a large one, made of red silk.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd,ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңis M. Morrel still alive?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңIn that case,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңhe should be a man blessed of God,
rich, happy.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse smiled bitterly. ГўВҖВңYes, happy as myself,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңWhat! M. Morrel unhappy?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңHe is reduced almost to the last extremityГўВҖВ”nay, he is almost at the
point of dishonor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse, ГўВҖВңso it is; after five-and-twenty years of
labor, after having acquired a most honorable name in the trade of
Marseilles, M. Morrel is utterly ruined; he has lost five ships in two
years, has suffered by the bankruptcy of three large houses, and his
only hope now is in that very _Pharaon_ which poor DantГғВЁs commanded,
and which is expected from the Indies with a cargo of cochineal and
indigo. If this ship founders, like the others, he is a ruined man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd has the unfortunate man wife or children?ГўВҖВқ inquired the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңYes, he has a wife, who through everything has behaved like an angel;
he has a daughter, who was about to marry the man she loved, but whose
family now will not allow him to wed the daughter of a ruined man; he
has, besides, a son, a lieutenant in the army; and, as you may suppose,
all this, instead of lessening, only augments his sorrows. If he were
alone in the world he would blow out his brains, and there would be an
end.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHorrible!ГўВҖВқ ejaculated the priest.

ГўВҖВңAnd it is thus heaven recompenses virtue, sir,ГўВҖВқ added Caderousse. ГўВҖВңYou
see, I, who never did a bad action but that I have told you ofГўВҖВ”am in
destitution, with my poor wife dying of fever before my very eyes, and
I unable to do anything in the world for her; I shall die of hunger, as
old DantГғВЁs did, while Fernand and Danglars are rolling in wealth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow is that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause their deeds have brought them good fortune, while honest men
have been reduced to misery.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat has become of Danglars, the instigator, and therefore the most
guilty?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat has become of him? Why, he left Marseilles, and was taken, on the
recommendation of M. Morrel, who did not know his crime, as cashier
into a Spanish bank. During the war with Spain he was employed in the
commissariat of the French army, and made a fortune; then with that
money he speculated in the funds, and trebled or quadrupled his
capital; and, having first married his bankerГўВҖВҷs daughter, who left him
a widower, he has married a second time, a widow, a Madame de Nargonne,
daughter of M. de Servieux, the kingГўВҖВҷs chamberlain, who is in high
favor at court. He is a millionaire, and they have made him a baron,
and now he is the Baron Danglars, with a fine residence in the Rue du
Mont-Blanc, with ten horses in his stables, six footmen in his
antechamber, and I know not how many millions in his strongbox.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh!ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, in a peculiar tone, ГўВҖВңhe is happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHappy? Who can answer for that? Happiness or unhappiness is the secret
known but to oneГўВҖВҷs self and the wallsГўВҖВ”walls have ears but no tongue;
but if a large fortune produces happiness, Danglars is happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd Fernand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFernand? Why, much the same story.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut how could a poor Catalan fisher-boy, without education or
resources, make a fortune? I confess this staggers me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd it has staggered everybody. There must have been in his life some
strange secret that no one knows.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, then, by what visible steps has he attained this high fortune or
high position?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBoth, sirГўВҖВ”he has both fortune and positionГўВҖВ”both.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis must be impossible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt would seem so; but listen, and you will understand. Some days
before the return of the emperor, Fernand was drafted. The Bourbons
left him quietly enough at the Catalans, but Napoleon returned, a
special levy was made, and Fernand was compelled to join. I went too;
but as I was older than Fernand, and had just married my poor wife, I
was only sent to the coast. Fernand was enrolled in the active army,
went to the frontier with his regiment, and was at the battle of Ligny.
The night after that battle he was sentry at the door of a general who
carried on a secret correspondence with the enemy. That same night the
general was to go over to the English. He proposed to Fernand to
accompany him; Fernand agreed to do so, deserted his post, and followed
the general.

ГўВҖВңFernand would have been court-martialed if Napoleon had remained on
the throne, but his action was rewarded by the Bourbons. He returned to
France with the epaulet of sub-lieutenant, and as the protection of the
general, who is in the highest favor, was accorded to him, he was a
captain in 1823, during the Spanish warГўВҖВ”that is to say, at the time
when Danglars made his early speculations. Fernand was a Spaniard, and
being sent to Spain to ascertain the feeling of his fellow-countrymen,
found Danglars there, got on very intimate terms with him, won over the
support of the royalists at the capital and in the provinces, received
promises and made pledges on his own part, guided his regiment by paths
known to himself alone through the mountain gorges which were held by
the royalists, and, in fact, rendered such services in this brief
campaign that, after the taking of Trocadero, he was made colonel, and
received the title of count and the cross of an officer of the Legion
of Honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDestiny! destiny!ГўВҖВқ murmured the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңYes, but listen: this was not all. The war with Spain being ended,
FernandГўВҖВҷs career was checked by the long peace which seemed likely to
endure throughout Europe. Greece only had risen against Turkey, and had
begun her war of independence; all eyes were turned towards AthensГўВҖВ”it
was the fashion to pity and support the Greeks. The French government,
without protecting them openly, as you know, gave countenance to
volunteer assistance. Fernand sought and obtained leave to go and serve
in Greece, still having his name kept on the army roll.

0345m



Some time after, it was stated that the Comte de Morcerf (this was the
name he bore) had entered the service of Ali Pasha with the rank of
instructor-general. Ali Pasha was killed, as you know, but before he
died he recompensed the services of Fernand by leaving him a
considerable sum, with which he returned to France, when he was
gazetted lieutenant-general.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that nowГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”?ГўВҖВқ inquired the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңSo that now,ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse, ГўВҖВңhe owns a magnificent houseГўВҖВ”No.
27, Rue du Helder, Paris.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© opened his mouth, hesitated for a moment, then, making an
effort at self-control, he said, ГўВҖВңAnd MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВ”they tell me that she
has disappeared?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDisappeared,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңyes, as the sun disappears, to rise
the next day with still more splendor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas she made a fortune also?ГўВҖВқ inquired the abbГғВ©, with an ironical
smile.

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs is at this moment one of the greatest ladies in Paris,ГўВҖВқ
replied Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңGo on,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңit seems as if I were listening to the story
of a dream. But I have seen things so extraordinary, that what you tell
me seems less astonishing than it otherwise might.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs was at first in the deepest despair at the blow which
deprived her of Edmond. I have told you of her attempts to propitiate
M. de Villefort, her devotion to the elder DantГғВЁs. In the midst of her
despair, a new affliction overtook her. This was the departure of
FernandГўВҖВ”of Fernand, whose crime she did not know, and whom she regarded
as her brother. Fernand went, and MercГғВ©dГғВЁs remained alone.

ГўВҖВңThree months passed and still she weptГўВҖВ”no news of Edmond, no news of
Fernand, no companionship save that of an old man who was dying with
despair. One evening, after a day of accustomed vigil at the angle of
two roads leading to Marseilles from the Catalans, she returned to her
home more depressed than ever. Suddenly she heard a step she knew,
turned anxiously around, the door opened, and Fernand, dressed in the
uniform of a sub-lieutenant, stood before her.

ГўВҖВңIt was not the one she wished for most, but it seemed as if a part of
her past life had returned to her.

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs seized FernandГўВҖВҷs hands with a transport which he took for
love, but which was only joy at being no longer alone in the world, and
seeing at last a friend, after long hours of solitary sorrow. And then,
it must be confessed, Fernand had never been hatedГўВҖВ”he was only not
precisely loved. Another possessed all MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ heart; that other was
absent, had disappeared, perhaps was dead. At this last thought
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs burst into a flood of tears, and wrung her hands in agony; but
the thought, which she had always repelled before when it was suggested
to her by another, came now in full force upon her mind; and then, too,
old DantГғВЁs incessantly said to her, ГўВҖВҳOur Edmond is dead; if he were
not, he would return to us.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe old man died, as I have told you; had he lived, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,
perchance, had not become the wife of another, for he would have been
there to reproach her infidelity. Fernand saw this, and when he learned
of the old manГўВҖВҷs death he returned. He was now a lieutenant. At his
first coming he had not said a word of love to MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; at the second
he reminded her that he loved her.

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs begged for six months more in which to await and mourn for
Edmond.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, with a bitter smile, ГўВҖВңthat makes eighteen
months in all. What more could the most devoted lover desire?ГўВҖВқ Then he
murmured the words of the English poet, ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳFrailty, thy name is woman.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSix months afterwards,ГўВҖВқ continued Caderousse, ГўВҖВңthe marriage took place
in the church of Accoules.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe very church in which she was to have married Edmond,ГўВҖВқ murmured the
priest; ГўВҖВңthere was only a change of bridegrooms.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs was married,ГўВҖВқ proceeded Caderousse; ГўВҖВңbut although in
the eyes of the world she appeared calm, she nearly fainted as she
passed La RГғВ©serve, where, eighteen months before, the betrothal had
been celebrated with him whom she might have known she still loved, had
she looked to the bottom of her heart. Fernand, more happy, but not
more at his easeГўВҖВ”for I saw at this time he was in constant dread of
EdmondГўВҖВҷs returnГўВҖВ”Fernand was very anxious to get his wife away, and to
depart himself. There were too many unpleasant possibilities associated
with the Catalans, and eight days after the wedding they left
Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you ever see MercГғВ©dГғВЁs again?ГўВҖВқ inquired the priest.

ГўВҖВңYes, during the Spanish war, at Perpignan, where Fernand had left her;
she was attending to the education of her son.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© started. ГўВҖВңHer son?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВңlittle Albert.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, then, to be able to instruct her child,ГўВҖВқ continued the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңshe
must have received an education herself. I understood from Edmond that
she was the daughter of a simple fisherman, beautiful but uneducated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВңdid he know so little of his lovely
betrothed? MercГғВ©dГғВЁs might have been a queen, sir, if the crown were to
be placed on the heads of the loveliest and most intelligent. FernandГўВҖВҷs
fortune was already waxing great, and she developed with his growing
fortune. She learned drawing, musicГўВҖВ”everything. Besides, I believe,
between ourselves, she did this in order to distract her mind, that she
might forget; and she only filled her head in order to alleviate the
weight on her heart. But now her position in life is assured,ГўВҖВқ
continued Caderousse; ГўВҖВңno doubt fortune and honors have comforted her;
she is rich, a countess, and yetГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse paused.

ГўВҖВңAnd yet what?ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңYet, I am sure, she is not happy,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңWhat makes you believe this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, when I found myself utterly destitute, I thought my old friends
would, perhaps, assist me. So I went to Danglars, who would not even
receive me. I called on Fernand, who sent me a hundred francs by his
valet-de-chambre.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you did not see either of them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, but Madame de Morcerf saw me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow was that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs I went away a purse fell at my feetГўВҖВ”it contained five-and-twenty
louis; I raised my head quickly, and saw MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, who at once shut the
blind.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd M. de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ asked the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңOh, he never was a friend of mine, I did not know him, and I had
nothing to ask of him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you not know what became of him, and the share he had in EdmondГўВҖВҷs
misfortunes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; I only know that some time after EdmondГўВҖВҷs arrest, he married
Mademoiselle de Saint-MГғВ©ran, and soon after left Marseilles; no doubt
he has been as lucky as the rest; no doubt he is as rich as Danglars,
as high in station as Fernand. I only, as you see, have remained poor,
wretched, and forgotten.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken, my friend,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңGod may seem
sometimes to forget for a time, while his justice reposes, but there
always comes a moment when he remembersГўВҖВ”and beholdГўВҖВ”a proof!ГўВҖВқ

As he spoke, the abbГғВ© took the diamond from his pocket, and giving it
to Caderousse, said, ГўВҖВңHere, my friend, take this diamond, it is yours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, for me only?ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse, ГўВҖВңah, sir, do not jest with me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis diamond was to have been shared among his friends. Edmond had one
friend only, and thus it cannot be divided. Take the diamond, then, and
sell it; it is worth fifty thousand francs, and I repeat my wish that
this sum may suffice to release you from your wretchedness.ГўВҖВқ

0351m



ГўВҖВңOh, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, putting out one hand timidly, and with the
other wiping away the perspiration which bedewed his brow,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңOh, sir, do
not make a jest of the happiness or despair of a man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know what happiness and what despair are, and I never make a jest of
such feelings. Take it, then, but in exchangeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse, who touched the diamond, withdrew his hand.

The abbГғВ© smiled.

ГўВҖВңIn exchange,ГўВҖВқ he continued, ГўВҖВңgive me the red silk purse that M. Morrel
left on old DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ chimney-piece, and which you tell me is still in
your hands.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse, more and more astonished, went toward a large oaken
cupboard, opened it, and gave the abbГғВ© a long purse of faded red silk,
round which were two copper runners that had once been gilt. The abbГғВ©
took it, and in return gave Caderousse the diamond.

ГўВҖВңOh, you are a man of God, sir,ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse; ГўВҖВңfor no one knew
that Edmond had given you this diamond, and you might have kept it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ© to himself, ГўВҖВңyou would have done.ГўВҖВқ The abbГғВ©
rose, took his hat and gloves. ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңall you have told me
is perfectly true, then, and I may believe it in every particular.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSee, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВңin this corner is a crucifix in holy
woodГўВҖВ”here on this shelf is my wifeГўВҖВҷs testament; open this book, and I
will swear upon it with my hand on the crucifix. I will swear to you by
my soulГўВҖВҷs salvation, my faith as a Christian, I have told everything to
you as it occurred, and as the recording angel will tell it to the ear
of God at the day of the last judgment!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis well,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, convinced by his manner and tone that
Caderousse spoke the truth. ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis well, and may this money profit you!
Adieu; I go far from men who thus so bitterly injure each other.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© with difficulty got away from the enthusiastic thanks of
Caderousse, opened the door himself, got out and mounted his horse,
once more saluted the innkeeper, who kept uttering his loud farewells,
and then returned by the road he had travelled in coming.

When Caderousse turned around, he saw behind him La Carconte, paler and
trembling more than ever.

ГўВҖВңIs, then, all that I have heard really true?ГўВҖВқ she inquired.

ГўВҖВңWhat? That he has given the diamond to us only?ГўВҖВқ inquired Caderousse,
half bewildered with joy; ГўВҖВңyes, nothing more true! See, here it is.ГўВҖВқ

The woman gazed at it a moment, and then said, in a gloomy voice,
ГўВҖВңSuppose itГўВҖВҷs false?ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse started and turned pale.

ГўВҖВңFalse!ГўВҖВқ he muttered. ГўВҖВңFalse! Why should that man give me a false
diamond?ГўВҖВқ

0349m



ГўВҖВңTo get your secret without paying for it, you blockhead!ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse remained for a moment aghast under the weight of such an
idea.

ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ he said, taking up his hat, which he placed on the red
handkerchief tied round his head, ГўВҖВңwe will soon find out.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what way?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, the fair is on at Beaucaire, there are always jewellers from
Paris there, and I will show it to them. Look after the house, wife,
and I shall be back in two hours,ГўВҖВқ and Caderousse left the house in
haste, and ran rapidly in the direction opposite to that which the
priest had taken.

ГўВҖВңFifty thousand francs!ГўВҖВқ muttered La Carconte when left alone; ГўВҖВңit is a
large sum of money, but it is not a fortune.ГўВҖВқ


VOLUME TWO

20009m



20011m



20019m




 Chapter 28. The Prison Register

The day after that in which the scene we have just described had taken
place on the road between Bellegarde and Beaucaire, a man of about
thirty or two-and-thirty, dressed in a bright blue frock coat, nankeen
trousers, and a white waistcoat, having the appearance and accent of an
Englishman, presented himself before the mayor of Marseilles.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI am chief clerk of the house of Thomson & French, of
Rome. We are, and have been these ten years, connected with the house
of Morrel & Son, of Marseilles. We have a hundred thousand francs or
thereabouts loaned on their securities, and we are a little uneasy at
reports that have reached us that the firm is on the brink of ruin. I
have come, therefore, express from Rome, to ask you for information.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied the mayor. ГўВҖВңI know very well that during the last four
or five years misfortune has seemed to pursue M. Morrel. He has lost
four or five vessels, and suffered by three or four bankruptcies; but
it is not for me, although I am a creditor myself to the amount of ten
thousand francs, to give any information as to the state of his
finances. Ask of me, as mayor, what is my opinion of M. Morrel, and I
shall say that he is a man honorable to the last degree, and who has up
to this time fulfilled every engagement with scrupulous punctuality.
This is all I can say, sir; if you wish to learn more, address yourself
to M. de Boville, the inspector of prisons, No. 15, Rue de Nouailles;
he has, I believe, two hundred thousand francs in MorrelГўВҖВҷs hands, and
if there be any grounds for apprehension, as this is a greater amount
than mine, you will most probably find him better informed than
myself.ГўВҖВқ

The Englishman seemed to appreciate this extreme delicacy, made his bow
and went away, proceeding with a characteristic British stride towards
the street mentioned.

M. de Boville was in his private room, and the Englishman, on
perceiving him, made a gesture of surprise, which seemed to indicate
that it was not the first time he had been in his presence. As to M. de
Boville, he was in such a state of despair, that it was evident all the
faculties of his mind, absorbed in the thought which occupied him at
the moment, did not allow either his memory or his imagination to stray
to the past.

The Englishman, with the coolness of his nation, addressed him in terms
nearly similar to those with which he had accosted the mayor of
Marseilles.

ГўВҖВңOh, sir,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed M. de Boville, ГўВҖВңyour fears are unfortunately but
too well founded, and you see before you a man in despair. I had two
hundred thousand francs placed in the hands of Morrel & Son; these two
hundred thousand francs were the dowry of my daughter, who was to be
married in a fortnight, and these two hundred thousand francs were
payable, half on the 15th of this month, and the other half on the 15th
of next month. I had informed M. Morrel of my desire to have these
payments punctually, and he has been here within the last half-hour to
tell me that if his ship, the _Pharaon_, did not come into port on the
15th, he would be wholly unable to make this payment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman, ГўВҖВңthis looks very much like a suspension of
payment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt looks more like bankruptcy!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed M. de Boville despairingly.

The Englishman appeared to reflect a moment, and then said, ГўВҖВңFrom which
it would appear, sir, that this credit inspires you with considerable
apprehension?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo tell you the truth, I consider it lost.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, I will buy it of you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut at a tremendous discount, of course?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, for two hundred thousand francs. Our house,ГўВҖВқ added the Englishman
with a laugh, ГўВҖВңdoes not do things in that way.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you will payГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReady money.ГўВҖВқ

20023m



And the Englishman drew from his pocket a bundle of bank-notes, which
might have been twice the sum M. de Boville feared to lose. A ray of
joy passed across M. de BovilleГўВҖВҷs countenance, yet he made an effort at
self-control, and said:

ГўВҖВңSir, I ought to tell you that, in all probability, you will not
realize six per cent of this sum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs no affair of mine,ГўВҖВқ replied the Englishman, ГўВҖВңthat is the affair
of the house of Thomson & French, in whose name I act. They have,
perhaps, some motive to serve in hastening the ruin of a rival firm.
But all I know, sir, is, that I am ready to hand you over this sum in
exchange for your assignment of the debt. I only ask a brokerage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf course, that is perfectly just,ГўВҖВқ cried M. de Boville. ГўВҖВңThe
commission is usually one and a half; will you have twoГўВҖВ”threeГўВҖВ”five per
cent, or even more? Whatever you say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied the Englishman, laughing, ГўВҖВңI am like my house, and do
not do such thingsГўВҖВ”no, the commission I ask is quite different.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңName it, sir, I beg.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are the inspector of prisons?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have been so these fourteen years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou keep the registers of entries and departures?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo these registers there are added notes relative to the prisoners?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere are special reports on every prisoner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir, I was educated at Rome by a poor devil of an abbГғВ©, who
disappeared suddenly. I have since learned that he was confined in the
ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, and I should like to learn some particulars of his
death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was his name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe AbbГғВ© Faria.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I recollect him perfectly,ГўВҖВқ cried M. de Boville; ГўВҖВңhe was crazy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo they said.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, he was, decidedly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery possibly; but what sort of madness was it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe pretended to know of an immense treasure, and offered vast sums to
the government if they would liberate him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor devil!ГўВҖВ”and he is dead?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir, five or six months ago, last February.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have a good memory, sir, to recollect dates so well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI recollect this, because the poor devilГўВҖВҷs death was accompanied by a
singular incident.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMay I ask what that was?ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman with an expression of
curiosity, which a close observer would have been astonished at
discovering in his phlegmatic countenance.

ГўВҖВңOh dear, yes, sir; the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs dungeon was forty or fifty feet distant
from that of one of BonaparteГўВҖВҷs emissaries,ГўВҖВ”one of those who had
contributed the most to the return of the usurper in 1815, a very
resolute and very dangerous man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed!ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied M. de Boville; ГўВҖВңI myself had occasion to see this man in
1816 or 1817, and we could only go into his dungeon with a file of
soldiers. That man made a deep impression on me; I shall never forget
his countenance!ГўВҖВқ

20025m



The Englishman smiled imperceptibly.

ГўВҖВңAnd you say, sir,ГўВҖВқ he interposed, ГўВҖВңthat the two dungeonsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWere separated by a distance of fifty feet; but it appears that this
Edmond DantГғВЁsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis dangerous manГўВҖВҷs name wasГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEdmond DantГғВЁs. It appears, sir, that this Edmond DantГғВЁs had procured
tools, or made them, for they found a tunnel through which the
prisoners held communication with one another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis tunnel was dug, no doubt, with an intention of escape?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo doubt; but unfortunately for the prisoners, the AbbГғВ© Faria had an
attack of catalepsy, and died.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat must have cut short the projects of escape.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor the dead man, yes,ГўВҖВқ replied M. de Boville, ГўВҖВңbut not for the
survivor; on the contrary, this DantГғВЁs saw a means of accelerating his
escape. He, no doubt, thought that prisoners who died in the ChГғВўteau
dГўВҖВҷIf were interred in an ordinary burial-ground, and he conveyed the
dead man into his own cell, took his place in the sack in which they
had sewed up the corpse, and awaited the moment of interment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was a bold step, and one that showed some courage,ГўВҖВқ remarked the
Englishman.

ГўВҖВңAs I have already told you, sir, he was a very dangerous man; and,
fortunately, by his own act disembarrassed the government of the fears
it had on his account.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow was that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow? Do you not comprehend?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf has no cemetery, and they simply throw the dead into
the sea, after fastening a thirty-six-pound cannon-ball to their feet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ observed the Englishman as if he were slow of comprehension.

ГўВҖВңWell, they fastened a thirty-six-pound ball to his feet, and threw him
into the sea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the Englishman.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ continued the inspector of prisons. ГўВҖВңYou may imagine the
amazement of the fugitive when he found himself flung headlong over the
rocks! I should like to have seen his face at that moment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat would have been difficult.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo matter,ГўВҖВқ replied De Boville, in supreme good-humor at the certainty
of recovering his two hundred thousand francs,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңno matter, I can fancy
it.ГўВҖВқ And he shouted with laughter.

ГўВҖВңSo can I,ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman, and he laughed too; but he laughed as
the English do, ГўВҖВңat the end of his teeth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd so,ГўВҖВқ continued the Englishman who first gained his composure, ГўВҖВңhe
was drowned?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnquestionably.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that the governor got rid of the dangerous and the crazy prisoner
at the same time?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely.ГўВҖВқ

20027m



ГўВҖВңBut some official document was drawn up as to this affair, I suppose?ГўВҖВқ
inquired the Englishman.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, the mortuary deposition. You understand, DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ relations,
if he had any, might have some interest in knowing if he were dead or
alive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that now, if there were anything to inherit from him, they may do
so with easy conscience. He is dead, and no mistake about it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes; and they may have the fact attested whenever they please.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo be it,ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman. ГўВҖВңBut to return to these registers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, this story has diverted our attention from them. Excuse me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcuse you for what? For the story? By no means; it really seems to me
very curious.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed. So, sir, you wish to see all relating to the poor abbГғВ©,
who really was gentleness itself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you will much oblige me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo into my study here, and I will show it to you.ГўВҖВқ

And they both entered M. de BovilleГўВҖВҷs study. Everything was here
arranged in perfect order; each register had its number, each file of
papers its place. The inspector begged the Englishman to seat himself
in an armchair, and placed before him the register and documents
relative to the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, giving him all the time he desired for
the examination, while De Boville seated himself in a corner, and began
to read his newspaper. The Englishman easily found the entries relative
to the AbbГғВ© Faria; but it seemed that the history which the inspector
had related interested him greatly, for after having perused the first
documents he turned over the leaves until he reached the deposition
respecting Edmond DantГғВЁs. There he found everything arranged in due
order,ГўВҖВ”the accusation, examination, MorrelГўВҖВҷs petition, M. de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs marginal notes. He folded up the accusation quietly, and
put it as quietly in his pocket; read the examination, and saw that the
name of Noirtier was not mentioned in it; perused, too, the application
dated 10th April, 1815, in which Morrel, by the deputy procureurГўВҖВҷs
advice, exaggerated with the best intentions (for Napoleon was then on
the throne) the services DantГғВЁs had rendered to the imperial
causeГўВҖВ”services which VillefortГўВҖВҷs certificates rendered indisputable.
Then he saw through the whole thing. This petition to Napoleon, kept
back by Villefort, had become, under the second restoration, a terrible
weapon against him in the hands of the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney. He was no
longer astonished when he searched on to find in the register this
note, placed in a bracket against his name:

Edmond DantГғВЁs.

An inveterate Bonapartist; took an active part in the return from the
Island of Elba.

To be kept in strict solitary confinement, and to be closely watched
and guarded.

Beneath these lines was written in another hand: ГўВҖВңSee note
aboveГўВҖВ”nothing can be done.ГўВҖВқ

He compared the writing in the bracket with the writing of the
certificate placed beneath MorrelГўВҖВҷs petition, and discovered that the
note in the bracket was the same writing as the certificateГўВҖВ”that is to
say, was in VillefortГўВҖВҷs handwriting.

20029m



As to the note which accompanied this, the Englishman understood that
it might have been added by some inspector who had taken a momentary
interest in DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ situation, but who had, from the remarks we have
quoted, found it impossible to give any effect to the interest he had
felt.

As we have said, the inspector, from discretion, and that he might not
disturb the AbbГғВ© FariaГўВҖВҷs pupil in his researches, had seated himself in
a corner, and was reading _Le Drapeau Blanc_. He did not see the
Englishman fold up and place in his pocket the accusation written by
Danglars under the arbor of La RГғВ©serve, and which had the postmark,
ГўВҖВңMarseilles, 27th February, delivery 6 oГўВҖВҷclock, P.M.ГўВҖВқ

But it must be said that if he had seen it, he attached so little
importance to this scrap of paper, and so much importance to his two
hundred thousand francs, that he would not have opposed whatever the
Englishman might do, however irregular it might be.

ГўВҖВңThanks,ГўВҖВқ said the latter, closing the register with a slam, ГўВҖВңI have
all I want; now it is for me to perform my promise. Give me a simple
assignment of your debt; acknowledge therein the receipt of the cash,
and I will hand you over the money.ГўВҖВқ

He rose, gave his seat to M. de Boville, who took it without ceremony,
and quickly drew up the required assignment, while the Englishman
counted out the bank-notes on the other side of the desk.



 Chapter 29. The House of Morrel & Son

Anyone who had quitted Marseilles a few years previously, well
acquainted with the interior of MorrelГўВҖВҷs warehouse, and had returned at
this date, would have found a great change. Instead of that air of
life, of comfort, and of happiness that permeates a flourishing and
prosperous business establishmentГўВҖВ”instead of merry faces at the
windows, busy clerks hurrying to and fro in the long corridorsГўВҖВ”instead
of the court filled with bales of goods, re-echoing with the cries and
the jokes of porters, one would have immediately perceived all aspect
of sadness and gloom. Out of all the numerous clerks that used to fill
the deserted corridor and the empty office, but two remained. One was a
young man of three or four-and-twenty, who was in love with M. MorrelГўВҖВҷs
daughter, and had remained with him in spite of the efforts of his
friends to induce him to withdraw; the other was an old one-eyed
cashier, called ГўВҖВңCocles,ГўВҖВқ or ГўВҖВңCock-eye,ГўВҖВқ a nickname given him by the
young men who used to throng this vast now almost deserted bee-hive,
and which had so completely replaced his real name that he would not,
in all probability, have replied to anyone who addressed him by it.

Cocles remained in M. MorrelГўВҖВҷs service, and a most singular change had
taken place in his position; he had at the same time risen to the rank
of cashier, and sunk to the rank of a servant. He was, however, the
same Cocles, good, patient, devoted, but inflexible on the subject of
arithmetic, the only point on which he would have stood firm against
the world, even against M. Morrel; and strong in the
multiplication-table, which he had at his fingersГўВҖВҷ ends, no matter what
scheme or what trap was laid to catch him.

In the midst of the disasters that befell the house, Cocles was the
only one unmoved. But this did not arise from a want of affection; on
the contrary, from a firm conviction. Like the rats that one by one
forsake the doomed ship even before the vessel weighs anchor, so all
the numerous clerks had by degrees deserted the office and the
warehouse. Cocles had seen them go without thinking of inquiring the
cause of their departure. Everything was as we have said, a question of
arithmetic to Cocles, and during twenty years he had always seen all
payments made with such exactitude, that it seemed as impossible to him
that the house should stop payment, as it would to a miller that the
river that had so long turned his mill should cease to flow.

Nothing had as yet occurred to shake CoclesГўВҖВҷ belief; the last monthГўВҖВҷs
payment had been made with the most scrupulous exactitude; Cocles had
detected an overbalance of fourteen sous in his cash, and the same
evening he had brought them to M. Morrel, who, with a melancholy smile,
threw them into an almost empty drawer, saying:

ГўВҖВңThanks, Cocles; you are the pearl of cashiers.ГўВҖВқ

Cocles went away perfectly happy, for this eulogium of M. Morrel,
himself the pearl of the honest men of Marseilles, flattered him more
than a present of fifty crowns. But since the end of the month M.
Morrel had passed many an anxious hour.

In order to meet the payments then due; he had collected all his
resources, and, fearing lest the report of his distress should get
bruited abroad at Marseilles when he was known to be reduced to such an
extremity, he went to the Beaucaire fair to sell his wifeГўВҖВҷs and
daughterГўВҖВҷs jewels and a portion of his plate. By this means the end of
the month was passed, but his resources were now exhausted. Credit,
owing to the reports afloat, was no longer to be had; and to meet the
one hundred thousand francs due on the 15th of the present month, and
the one hundred thousand francs due on the 15th of the next month to M.
de Boville, M. Morrel had, in reality, no hope but the return of the
_Pharaon_, of whose departure he had learnt from a vessel which had
weighed anchor at the same time, and which had already arrived in
harbor.

But this vessel which, like the _Pharaon_, came from Calcutta, had been
in for a fortnight, while no intelligence had been received of the
_Pharaon_.

20033m



Such was the state of affairs when, the day after his interview with M.
de Boville, the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson & French of
Rome, presented himself at M. MorrelГўВҖВҷs.

Emmanuel received him; this young man was alarmed by the appearance of
every new face, for every new face might be that of a new creditor,
come in anxiety to question the head of the house. The young man,
wishing to spare his employer the pain of this interview, questioned
the new-comer; but the stranger declared that he had nothing to say to
M. Emmanuel, and that his business was with M. Morrel in person.

Emmanuel sighed, and summoned Cocles. Cocles appeared, and the young
man bade him conduct the stranger to M. MorrelГўВҖВҷs apartment. Cocles went
first, and the stranger followed him. On the staircase they met a
beautiful girl of sixteen or seventeen, who looked with anxiety at the
stranger.

ГўВҖВңM. Morrel is in his room, is he not, Mademoiselle Julie?ГўВҖВқ said the
cashier.

ГўВҖВңYes; I think so, at least,ГўВҖВқ said the young girl hesitatingly. ГўВҖВңGo and
see, Cocles, and if my father is there, announce this gentleman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt will be useless to announce me, mademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ returned the
Englishman. ГўВҖВңM. Morrel does not know my name; this worthy gentleman has
only to announce the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson &
French of Rome, with whom your father does business.ГўВҖВқ

The young girl turned pale and continued to descend, while the stranger
and Cocles continued to mount the staircase. She entered the office
where Emmanuel was, while Cocles, by the aid of a key he possessed,
opened a door in the corner of a landing-place on the second staircase,
conducted the stranger into an antechamber, opened a second door, which
he closed behind him, and after having left the clerk of the house of
Thomson & French alone, returned and signed to him that he could enter.

The Englishman entered, and found Morrel seated at a table, turning
over the formidable columns of his ledger, which contained the list of
his liabilities. At the sight of the stranger, M. Morrel closed the
ledger, arose, and offered a seat to the stranger; and when he had seen
him seated, resumed his own chair. Fourteen years had changed the
worthy merchant, who, in his thirty-sixth year at the opening of this
history, was now in his fiftieth; his hair had turned white, time and
sorrow had ploughed deep furrows on his brow, and his look, once so
firm and penetrating, was now irresolute and wandering, as if he feared
being forced to fix his attention on some particular thought or person.

The Englishman looked at him with an air of curiosity, evidently
mingled with interest. ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, whose uneasiness was
increased by this examination, ГўВҖВңyou wish to speak to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, monsieur; you are aware from whom I come?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe house of Thomson & French; at least, so my cashier tells me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has told you rightly. The house of Thomson & French had 300,000 or
400,000 francs to pay this month in France; and, knowing your strict
punctuality, have collected all the bills bearing your signature, and
charged me as they became due to present them, and to employ the money
otherwise.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel sighed deeply, and passed his hand over his forehead, which was
covered with perspiration.

ГўВҖВңSo then, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңyou hold bills of mine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and for a considerable sum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is the amount?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel with a voice he strove to render
firm.

20035m



ГўВҖВңHere is,ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman, taking a quantity of papers from his
pocket, ГўВҖВңan assignment of 200,000 francs to our house by M. de Boville,
the inspector of prisons, to whom they are due. You acknowledge, of
course, that you owe this sum to him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; he placed the money in my hands at four and a half per cent
nearly five years ago.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen are you to pay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHalf the 15th of this month, half the 15th of next.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust so; and now here are 32,500 francs payable shortly; they are all
signed by you, and assigned to our house by the holders.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI recognize them,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, whose face was suffused, as he thought
that, for the first time in his life, he would be unable to honor his
own signature. ГўВҖВңIs this all?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I have for the end of the month these bills which have been
assigned to us by the house of Pascal, and the house of Wild & Turner
of Marseilles, amounting to nearly 55,000 francs; in all, 287,500
francs.ГўВҖВқ

It is impossible to describe what Morrel suffered during this
enumeration. ГўВҖВңTwo hundred and eighty-seven thousand five hundred
francs,ГўВҖВқ repeated he.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the Englishman. ГўВҖВңI will not,ГўВҖВқ continued he, after a
momentГўВҖВҷs silence, ГўВҖВңconceal from you, that while your probity and
exactitude up to this moment are universally acknowledged, yet the
report is current in Marseilles that you are not able to meet your
liabilities.ГўВҖВқ

At this almost brutal speech Morrel turned deathly pale.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңup to this timeГўВҖВ”and it is now more than
four-and-twenty years since I received the direction of this house from
my father, who had himself conducted it for five-and-thirty yearsГўВҖВ”never
has anything bearing the signature of Morrel & Son been dishonored.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know that,ГўВҖВқ replied the Englishman. ГўВҖВңBut as a man of honor should
answer another, tell me fairly, shall you pay these with the same
punctuality?ГўВҖВқ

Morrel shuddered, and looked at the man, who spoke with more assurance
than he had hitherto shown.

ГўВҖВңTo questions frankly put,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңa straightforward answer should
be given. Yes, I shall pay, if, as I hope, my vessel arrives safely;
for its arrival will again procure me the credit which the numerous
accidents, of which I have been the victim, have deprived me; but if
the _Pharaon_ should be lost, and this last resource be goneГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

The poor manГўВҖВҷs eyes filled with tears.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the other, ГўВҖВңif this last resource fail you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ returned Morrel, ГўВҖВңit is a cruel thing to be forced to say, but,
already used to misfortune, I must habituate myself to shame. I fear I
shall be forced to suspend payment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you no friends who could assist you?ГўВҖВқ

Morrel smiled mournfully.

ГўВҖВңIn business, sir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңone has no friends, only correspondents.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is true,ГўВҖВқ murmured the Englishman; ГўВҖВңthen you have but one hope.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe last?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe last.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that if this failГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am ruined,ГўВҖВ”completely ruined!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs I was on my way here, a vessel was coming into port.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it, sir; a young man, who still adheres to my fallen fortunes,
passes a part of his time in a belvedere at the top of the house, in
hopes of being the first to announce good news to me; he has informed
me of the arrival of this ship.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd it is not yours?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, she is a Bordeaux vessel, _La Gironde_; she comes from India also;
but she is not mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps she has spoken to the _Pharaon_, and brings you some tidings
of her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I tell you plainly one thing, sir? I dread almost as much to
receive any tidings of my vessel as to remain in doubt. Uncertainty is
still hope.ГўВҖВқ Then in a low voice Morrel added,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңThis delay is not
natural. The _Pharaon_ left Calcutta the 5th of February; she ought to
have been here a month ago.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman. ГўВҖВңWhat is the meaning of that
noise?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, my God!ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, turning pale, ГўВҖВңwhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

A loud noise was heard on the stairs of people moving hastily, and
half-stifled sobs. Morrel rose and advanced to the door; but his
strength failed him and he sank into a chair. The two men remained
opposite one another, Morrel trembling in every limb, the stranger
gazing at him with an air of profound pity. The noise had ceased; but
it seemed that Morrel expected somethingГўВҖВ”something had occasioned the
noise, and something must follow. The stranger fancied he heard
footsteps on the stairs; and that the footsteps, which were those of
several persons, stopped at the door. A key was inserted in the lock of
the first door, and the creaking of hinges was audible.

ГўВҖВңThere are only two persons who have the key to that door,ГўВҖВқ murmured
Morrel, ГўВҖВңCocles and Julie.ГўВҖВқ

At this instant the second door opened, and the young girl, her eyes
bathed with tears, appeared. Morrel rose tremblingly, supporting
himself by the arm of the chair. He would have spoken, but his voice
failed him.

ГўВҖВңOh, father!ГўВҖВқ said she, clasping her hands, ГўВҖВңforgive your child for
being the bearer of evil tidings.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel again changed color. Julie threw herself into his arms.

ГўВҖВңOh, father, father!ГўВҖВқ murmured she, ГўВҖВңcourage!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe _Pharaon_ has gone down, then?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel in a hoarse voice. The
young girl did not speak; but she made an affirmative sign with her
head as she lay on her fatherГўВҖВҷs breast.

ГўВҖВңAnd the crew?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңSaved,ГўВҖВқ said the girl; ГўВҖВңsaved by the crew of the vessel that has just
entered the harbor.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel raised his two hands to heaven with an expression of resignation
and sublime gratitude.

ГўВҖВңThanks, my God,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңat least thou strikest but me alone.ГўВҖВқ

A tear moistened the eye of the phlegmatic Englishman.

ГўВҖВңCome in, come in,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңfor I presume you are all at the
door.ГўВҖВқ

Scarcely had he uttered those words when Madame Morrel entered weeping
bitterly. Emmanuel followed her, and in the antechamber were visible
the rough faces of seven or eight half-naked sailors. At the sight of
these men the Englishman started and advanced a step; then restrained
himself, and retired into the farthest and most obscure corner of the
apartment. Madame Morrel sat down by her husband and took one of his
hands in hers, Julie still lay with her head on his shoulder, Emmanuel
stood in the centre of the chamber and seemed to form the link between
MorrelГўВҖВҷs family and the sailors at the door.

ГўВҖВңHow did this happen?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңDraw nearer, Penelon,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңand tell us all about it.ГўВҖВқ

An old seaman, bronzed by the tropical sun, advanced, twirling the
remains of a hat between his hands.

ГўВҖВңGood-day, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said he, as if he had just quitted Marseilles
the previous evening, and had just returned from Aix or Toulon.

ГўВҖВңGood-day, Penelon,ГўВҖВқ returned Morrel, who could not refrain from
smiling through his tears, ГўВҖВңwhere is the captain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe captain, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВ”he has stayed behind sick at Palma; but please
God, it wonГўВҖВҷt be much, and you will see him in a few days all alive and
hearty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, now tell your story, Penelon.ГўВҖВқ

20039m



Penelon rolled his quid in his cheek, placed his hand before his mouth,
turned his head, and sent a long jet of tobacco-juice into the
antechamber, advanced his foot, balanced himself, and began.

ГўВҖВңYou see, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwe were somewhere between Cape Blanc
and Cape Boyador, sailing with a fair breeze, south-south-west after a
weekГўВҖВҷs calm, when Captain Gaumard comes up to meГўВҖВ”I was at the helm I
should tell youГўВҖВ”and says, ГўВҖВҳPenelon, what do you think of those clouds
coming up over there?ГўВҖВҷ I was just then looking at them myself. ГўВҖВҳWhat do
I think, captain? Why I think that they are rising faster than they
have any business to do, and that they would not be so black if they
didnГўВҖВҷt mean mischief.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳThatГўВҖВҷs my opinion too,ГўВҖВҷ said the captain, ГўВҖВҳand
IГўВҖВҷll take precautions accordingly. We are carrying too much canvas.
Avast, there, all hands! Take in the studding-sails and stow the flying
jib.ГўВҖВҷ It was time; the squall was on us, and the vessel began to heel.
ГўВҖВҳAh,ГўВҖВҷ said the captain, ГўВҖВҳwe have still too much canvas set; all hands
lower the mainsail!ГўВҖВҷ Five minutes after, it was down; and we sailed
under mizzen-topsails and top-gallant sails. ГўВҖВҳWell, Penelon,ГўВҖВҷ said the
captain, ГўВҖВҳwhat makes you shake your head?ГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВҳWhy,ГўВҖВҷ I says, ГўВҖВҳI still
think youГўВҖВҷve got too much on.ГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВҳI think youГўВҖВҷre right,ГўВҖВҷ answered he, ГўВҖВҳwe
shall have a gale.ГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВҳA gale? More than that, we shall have a tempest,
or I donГўВҖВҷt know whatГўВҖВҷs what.ГўВҖВҷ You could see the wind coming like the
dust at Montredon; luckily the captain understood his business. ГўВҖВҳTake
in two reefs in the top-sails,ГўВҖВҷ cried the captain; ГўВҖВҳlet go the
bowlinГўВҖВҷs, haul the brace, lower the top-gallant sails, haul out the
reef-tackles on the yards.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

20041m



ГўВҖВңThat was not enough for those latitudes,ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman; ГўВҖВңI
should have taken four reefs in the topsails and furled the spanker.ГўВҖВқ

His firm, sonorous, and unexpected voice made everyone start. Penelon
put his hand over his eyes, and then stared at the man who thus
criticized the manГ…В“uvres of his captain.

ГўВҖВңWe did better than that, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the old sailor respectfully; ГўВҖВңwe
put the helm up to run before the tempest; ten minutes after we struck
our top-sails and scudded under bare poles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe vessel was very old to risk that,ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman.

ГўВҖВңEh, it was that that did the business; after pitching heavily for
twelve hours we sprung a leak. ГўВҖВҳPenelon,ГўВҖВҷ said the captain, ГўВҖВҳI think we
are sinking, give me the helm, and go down into the hold.ГўВҖВҷ I gave him
the helm, and descended; there was already three feet of water. ГўВҖВҳAll
hands to the pumps!ГўВҖВҷ I shouted; but it was too late, and it seemed the
more we pumped the more came in. ГўВҖВҳAh,ГўВҖВҷ said I, after four hoursГўВҖВҷ work,
ГўВҖВҳsince we are sinking, let us sink; we can die but once.ГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВҳIs that the
example you set, Penelon?ГўВҖВҷ cries the captain; ГўВҖВҳvery well, wait a
minute.ГўВҖВҷ He went into his cabin and came back with a brace of pistols.
ГўВҖВҳI will blow the brains out of the first man who leaves the pump,ГўВҖВҷ said
he.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell done!ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman.

20043m



ГўВҖВңThereГўВҖВҷs nothing gives you so much courage as good reasons,ГўВҖВқ continued
the sailor; ГўВҖВңand during that time the wind had abated, and the sea gone
down, but the water kept rising; not much, only two inches an hour, but
still it rose. Two inches an hour does not seem much, but in twelve
hours that makes two feet, and three we had before, that makes five.
ГўВҖВҳCome,ГўВҖВҷ said the captain, ГўВҖВҳwe have done all in our power, and M. Morrel
will have nothing to reproach us with, we have tried to save the ship,
let us now save ourselves. To the boats, my lads, as quick as you can.ГўВҖВҷ
Now,ГўВҖВқ continued Penelon, ГўВҖВңyou see, M. Morrel, a sailor is attached to
his ship, but still more to his life, so we did not wait to be told
twice; the more so, that the ship was sinking under us, and seemed to
say, ГўВҖВҳGet alongГўВҖВ”save yourselves.ГўВҖВҷ We soon launched the boat, and all
eight of us got into it. The captain descended last, or rather, he did
not descend, he would not quit the vessel; so I took him round the
waist, and threw him into the boat, and then I jumped after him. It was
time, for just as I jumped the deck burst with a noise like the
broadside of a man-of-war. Ten minutes after she pitched forward, then
the other way, spun round and round, and then good-bye to the
_Pharaon_. As for us, we were three days without anything to eat or
drink, so that we began to think of drawing lots who should feed the
rest, when we saw _La Gironde_; we made signals of distress, she
perceived us, made for us, and took us all on board. There now, M.
Morrel, thatГўВҖВҷs the whole truth, on the honor of a sailor; is not it
true, you fellows there?ГўВҖВқ A general murmur of approbation showed that
the narrator had faithfully detailed their misfortunes and sufferings.

ГўВҖВңWell, well,ГўВҖВқ said M. Morrel, ГўВҖВңI know there was no one in fault but
destiny. It was the will of God that this should happen, blessed be his
name. What wages are due to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, donГўВҖВҷt let us talk of that, M. Morrel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but we will talk of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, three months,ГўВҖВқ said Penelon.

ГўВҖВңCocles, pay two hundred francs to each of these good fellows,ГўВҖВқ said
Morrel. ГўВҖВңAt another time,ГўВҖВқ added he, ГўВҖВңI should have said, Give them,
besides, two hundred francs over as a present; but times are changed,
and the little money that remains to me is not my own, so do not think
me mean on this account.ГўВҖВқ

Penelon turned to his companions, and exchanged a few words with them.

ГўВҖВңAs for that, M. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said he, again turning his quid, ГўВҖВңas for
thatГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs for what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe money.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWellГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, we all say that fifty francs will be enough for us at present,
and that we will wait for the rest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThanks, my friends, thanks!ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel gratefully; ГўВҖВңtake itГўВҖВ”take
it; and if you can find another employer, enter his service; you are
free to do so.ГўВҖВқ

These last words produced a prodigious effect on the seaman. Penelon
nearly swallowed his quid; fortunately he recovered.

ГўВҖВңWhat, M. Morrel!ГўВҖВқ said he in a low voice, ГўВҖВңyou send us away; you are
then angry with us!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ said M. Morrel, ГўВҖВңI am not angry, quite the contrary, and I do
not send you away; but I have no more ships, and therefore I do not
want any sailors.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo more ships!ГўВҖВқ returned Penelon; ГўВҖВңwell, then, youГўВҖВҷll build some;
weГўВҖВҷll wait for you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have no money to build ships with, Penelon,ГўВҖВқ said the poor owner
mournfully, ГўВҖВңso I cannot accept your kind offer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo more money? Then you must not pay us; we can scud, like the
_Pharaon_, under bare poles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEnough, enough!ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, almost overpowered; ГўВҖВңleave me, I pray
you; we shall meet again in a happier time. Emmanuel, go with them, and
see that my orders are executed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least, we shall see each other again, M. Morrel?ГўВҖВқ asked Penelon.

ГўВҖВңYes; I hope so, at least. Now go.ГўВҖВқ He made a sign to Cocles, who went
first; the seamen followed him and Emmanuel brought up the rear. ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ
said the owner to his wife and daughter, ГўВҖВңleave me; I wish to speak
with this gentleman.ГўВҖВқ

20045m



And he glanced towards the clerk of Thomson & French, who had remained
motionless in the corner during this scene, in which he had taken no
part, except the few words we have mentioned. The two women looked at
this person whose presence they had entirely forgotten, and retired;
but, as she left the apartment, Julie gave the stranger a supplicating
glance, to which he replied by a smile that an indifferent spectator
would have been surprised to see on his stern features. The two men
were left alone. ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, sinking into a chair, ГўВҖВңyou
have heard all, and I have nothing further to tell you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI see,ГўВҖВқ returned the Englishman, ГўВҖВңthat a fresh and unmerited
misfortune has overwhelmed you, and this only increases my desire to
serve you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, sir!ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel.

ГўВҖВңLet me see,ГўВҖВқ continued the stranger, ГўВҖВңI am one of your largest
creditors.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour bills, at least, are the first that will fall due.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you wish for time to pay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA delay would save my honor, and consequently my life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow long a delay do you wish for?ГўВҖВқ

Morrel reflected. ГўВҖВңTwo months,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңI will give you three,ГўВҖВқ replied the stranger.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel, ГўВҖВңwill the house of Thomson & French consent?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I take everything on myself. Today is the 5th of June.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, renew these bills up to the 5th of September; and on the 5th of
September at eleven oГўВҖВҷclock (the hand of the clock pointed to eleven),
I shall come to receive the money.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall expect you,ГўВҖВқ returned Morrel; ГўВҖВңand I will pay youГўВҖВ”or I shall
be dead.ГўВҖВқ These last words were uttered in so low a tone that the
stranger could not hear them. The bills were renewed, the old ones
destroyed, and the poor ship-owner found himself with three months
before him to collect his resources. The Englishman received his thanks
with the phlegm peculiar to his nation; and Morrel, overwhelming him
with grateful blessings, conducted him to the staircase. The stranger
met Julie on the stairs; she pretended to be descending, but in reality
she was waiting for him. ГўВҖВңOh, sirГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”said she, clasping her hands.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ said the stranger, ГўВҖВңone day you will receive a letter
signed ГўВҖВҳSinbad the Sailor.ГўВҖВҷ Do exactly what the letter bids you,
however strange it may appear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ returned Julie.

ГўВҖВңDo you promise?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI swear to you I will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is well. Adieu, mademoiselle. Continue to be the good, sweet girl
you are at present, and I have great hopes that Heaven will reward you
by giving you Emmanuel for a husband.ГўВҖВқ

Julie uttered a faint cry, blushed like a rose, and leaned against the
baluster. The stranger waved his hand, and continued to descend. In the
court he found Penelon, who, with a rouleau of a hundred francs in
either hand, seemed unable to make up his mind to retain them. ГўВҖВңCome
with me, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman; ГўВҖВңI wish to speak to you.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 30. The Fifth of September

The extension provided for by the agent of Thomson & French, at the
moment when Morrel expected it least, was to the poor shipowner so
decided a stroke of good fortune that he almost dared to believe that
fate was at length grown weary of wasting her spite upon him. The same
day he told his wife, Emmanuel, and his daughter all that had occurred;
and a ray of hope, if not of tranquillity, returned to the family.
Unfortunately, however, Morrel had not only engagements with the house
of Thomson & French, who had shown themselves so considerate towards
him; and, as he had said, in business he had correspondents, and not
friends. When he thought the matter over, he could by no means account
for this generous conduct on the part of Thomson & French towards him;
and could only attribute it to some such selfish argument as this: ГўВҖВңWe
had better help a man who owes us nearly 300,000 francs, and have those
300,000 francs at the end of three months than hasten his ruin, and get
only six or eight per cent of our money back again.ГўВҖВқ

Unfortunately, whether through envy or stupidity, all MorrelГўВҖВҷs
correspondents did not take this view; and some even came to a contrary
decision. The bills signed by Morrel were presented at his office with
scrupulous exactitude, and, thanks to the delay granted by the
Englishman, were paid by Cocles with equal punctuality. Cocles thus
remained in his accustomed tranquillity. It was Morrel alone who
remembered with alarm, that if he had to repay on the 15th the 50,000
francs of M. de Boville, and on the 30th the 32,500 francs of bills,
for which, as well as the debt due to the inspector of prisons, he had
time granted, he must be a ruined man.

The opinion of all the commercial men was that, under the reverses
which had successively weighed down Morrel, it was impossible for him
to remain solvent. Great, therefore, was the astonishment when at the
end of the month, he cancelled all his obligations with his usual
punctuality. Still confidence was not restored to all minds, and the
general opinion was that the complete ruin of the unfortunate shipowner
had been postponed only until the end of the month.

The month passed, and Morrel made extraordinary efforts to get in all
his resources. Formerly his paper, at any date, was taken with
confidence, and was even in request. Morrel now tried to negotiate
bills at ninety days only, and none of the banks would give him credit.
Fortunately, Morrel had some funds coming in on which he could rely;
and, as they reached him, he found himself in a condition to meet his
engagements when the end of July came.

The agent of Thomson & French had not been again seen at Marseilles;
the day after, or two days after his visit to Morrel, he had
disappeared; and as in that city he had had no intercourse but with the
mayor, the inspector of prisons, and M. Morrel, his departure left no
trace except in the memories of these three persons. As to the sailors
of the _Pharaon_, they must have found snug berths elsewhere, for they
also had disappeared.

Captain Gaumard, recovered from his illness, had returned from Palma.
He delayed presenting himself at MorrelГўВҖВҷs, but the owner, hearing of
his arrival, went to see him. The worthy shipowner knew, from PenelonГўВҖВҷs
recital, of the captainГўВҖВҷs brave conduct during the storm, and tried to
console him. He brought him also the amount of his wages, which Captain
Gaumard had not dared to apply for.

As he descended the staircase, Morrel met Penelon, who was going up.
Penelon had, it would seem, made good use of his money, for he was
newly clad. When he saw his employer, the worthy tar seemed much
embarrassed, drew on one side into the corner of the landing-place,
passed his quid from one cheek to the other, stared stupidly with his
great eyes, and only acknowledged the squeeze of the hand which Morrel
as usual gave him by a slight pressure in return. Morrel attributed
PenelonГўВҖВҷs embarrassment to the elegance of his attire; it was evident
the good fellow had not gone to such an expense on his own account; he
was, no doubt, engaged on board some other vessel, and thus his
bashfulness arose from the fact of his not having, if we may so express
ourselves, worn mourning for the _Pharaon_ longer. Perhaps he had come
to tell Captain Gaumard of his good luck, and to offer him employment
from his new master.

ГўВҖВңWorthy fellows!ГўВҖВқ said Morrel,  as he went away, ГўВҖВңmay your new master
love you as I loved you, and be more fortunate than I have been!ГўВҖВқ

20049m



August rolled by in unceasing efforts on the part of Morrel to renew
his credit or revive the old. On the 20th of August it was known at
Marseilles that he had left town in the mailcoach, and then it was said
that the bills would go to protest at the end of the month, and that
Morrel had gone away and left his chief clerk Emmanuel, and his cashier
Cocles, to meet the creditors. But, contrary to all expectation, when
the 31st of August came, the house opened as usual, and Cocles appeared
behind the grating of the counter, examined all bills presented with
the usual scrutiny, and, from first to last, paid all with the usual
precision. There came in, moreover, two drafts which M. Morrel had
fully anticipated, and which Cocles paid as punctually as the bills
which the shipowner had accepted. All this was incomprehensible, and
then, with the tenacity peculiar to prophets of bad news, the failure
was put off until the end of September.

On the 1st, Morrel returned; he was awaited by his family with extreme
anxiety, for from this journey to Paris they hoped great things. Morrel
had thought of Danglars, who was now immensely rich, and had lain under
great obligations to Morrel in former days, since to him it was owing
that Danglars entered the service of the Spanish banker, with whom he
had laid the foundations of his vast wealth. It was said at this moment
that Danglars was worth from six to eight millions of francs, and had
unlimited credit. Danglars, then, without taking a crown from his
pocket, could save Morrel; he had but to pass his word for a loan, and
Morrel was saved. Morrel had long thought of Danglars, but had kept
away from some instinctive motive, and had delayed as long as possible
availing himself of this last resource. And Morrel was right, for he
returned home crushed by the humiliation of a refusal.

Yet, on his arrival, Morrel did not utter a complaint, or say one harsh
word. He embraced his weeping wife and daughter, pressed EmmanuelГўВҖВҷs
hand with friendly warmth, and then going to his private room on the
second floor had sent for Cocles.

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said the two women to Emmanuel, ГўВҖВңwe are indeed ruined.ГўВҖВқ

It was agreed in a brief council held among them, that Julie should
write to her brother, who was in garrison at NГғВ®mes, to come to them as
speedily as possible. The poor women felt instinctively that they
required all their strength to support the blow that impended. Besides,
Maximilian Morrel, though hardly two-and-twenty, had great influence
over his father.

He was a strong-minded, upright young man. At the time when he decided
on his profession his father had no desire to choose for him, but had
consulted young MaximilianГўВҖВҷs taste. He had at once declared for a
military life, and had in consequence studied hard, passed brilliantly
through the Polytechnic School, and left it as sub-lieutenant of the
53rd of the line. For a year he had held this rank, and expected
promotion on the first vacancy. In his regiment Maximilian Morrel was
noted for his rigid observance, not only of the obligations imposed on
a soldier, but also of the duties of a man; and he thus gained the name
of ГўВҖВңthe stoic.ГўВҖВқ We need hardly say that many of those who gave him this
epithet repeated it because they had heard it, and did not even know
what it meant.

This was the young man whom his mother and sister called to their aid
to sustain them under the serious trial which they felt they would soon
have to endure. They had not mistaken the gravity of this event, for
the moment after Morrel had entered his private office with Cocles,
Julie saw the latter leave it pale, trembling, and his features
betraying the utmost consternation. She would have questioned him as he
passed by her, but the worthy creature hastened down the staircase with
unusual precipitation, and only raised his hands to heaven and
exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңOh, mademoiselle, mademoiselle, what a dreadful misfortune! Who could
ever have believed it!ГўВҖВқ

A moment afterwards Julie saw him go upstairs carrying two or three
heavy ledgers, a portfolio, and a bag of money.

Morrel examined the ledgers, opened the portfolio, and counted the
money. All his funds amounted to 6,000 or 8,000 francs, his bills
receivable up to the 5th to 4,000 or 5,000, which, making the best of
everything, gave him 14,000 francs to meet debts amounting to 287,500
francs. He had not even the means for making a possible settlement on
account.

However, when Morrel went down to his dinner, he appeared very calm.
This calmness was more alarming to the two women than the deepest
dejection would have been. After dinner Morrel usually went out and
used to take his coffee at the club of the PhocГғВ©ens, and read the
_Semaphore_; this day he did not leave the house, but returned to his
office.

As to Cocles, he seemed completely bewildered. For part of the day he
went into the courtyard, seated himself on a stone with his head bare
and exposed to the blazing sun. Emmanuel tried to comfort the women,
but his eloquence faltered. The young man was too well acquainted with
the business of the house, not to feel that a great catastrophe hung
over the Morrel family. Night came, the two women had watched, hoping
that when he left his room Morrel would come to them, but they heard
him pass before their door, and trying to conceal the noise of his
footsteps. They listened; he went into his sleeping-room, and fastened
the door inside. Madame Morrel sent her daughter to bed, and half an
hour after Julie had retired, she rose, took off her shoes, and went
stealthily along the passage, to see through the keyhole what her
husband was doing.

In the passage she saw a retreating shadow; it was Julie, who, uneasy
herself, had anticipated her mother. The young lady went towards Madame
Morrel.

ГўВҖВңHe is writing,ГўВҖВқ she said.

They had understood each other without speaking. Madame Morrel looked
again through the keyhole, Morrel was writing; but Madame Morrel
remarked, what her daughter had not observed, that her husband was
writing on stamped paper. The terrible idea that he was writing his
will flashed across her; she shuddered, and yet had not strength to
utter a word.

Next day M. Morrel seemed as calm as ever, went into his office as
usual, came to his breakfast punctually, and then, after dinner, he
placed his daughter beside him, took her head in his arms, and held her
for a long time against his bosom. In the evening, Julie told her
mother, that although he was apparently so calm, she had noticed that
her fatherГўВҖВҷs heart beat violently.

The next two days passed in much the same way. On the evening of the
4th of September, M. Morrel asked his daughter for the key of his
study. Julie trembled at this request, which seemed to her of bad omen.
Why did her father ask for this key which she always kept, and which
was only taken from her in childhood as a punishment? The young girl
looked at Morrel.

ГўВҖВңWhat have I done wrong, father,ГўВҖВқ she said, ГўВҖВңthat you should take this
key from me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing, my dear,ГўВҖВқ replied the unhappy man, the tears starting to his
eyes at this simple question,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңnothing, only I want it.ГўВҖВқ

Julie made a pretence to feel for the key. ГўВҖВңI must have left it in my
room,ГўВҖВқ she said.

And she went out, but instead of going to her apartment she hastened to
consult Emmanuel.

ГўВҖВңDo not give this key to your father,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңand tomorrow morning,
if possible, do not quit him for a moment.ГўВҖВқ

She questioned Emmanuel, but he knew nothing, or would not say what he
knew.

During the night, between the 4th and 5th of September, Madame Morrel
remained listening for every sound, and, until three oГўВҖВҷclock in the
morning, she heard her husband pacing the room in great agitation. It
was three oГўВҖВҷclock when he threw himself on the bed. The mother and
daughter passed the night together. They had expected Maximilian since
the previous evening. At eight oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning Morrel entered
their chamber. He was calm; but the agitation of the night was legible
in his pale and careworn visage. They did not dare to ask him how he
had slept. Morrel was kinder to his wife, more affectionate to his
daughter, than he had ever been. He could not cease gazing at and
kissing the sweet girl. Julie, mindful of EmmanuelГўВҖВҷs request, was
following her father when he quitted the room, but he said to her
quickly:

ГўВҖВңRemain with your mother, dearest.ГўВҖВқ Julie wished to accompany him. ГўВҖВңI
wish you to do so,ГўВҖВқ said he.

This was the first time Morrel had ever so spoken, but he said it in a
tone of paternal kindness, and Julie did not dare to disobey. She
remained at the same spot standing mute and motionless. An instant
afterwards the door opened, she felt two arms encircle her, and a mouth
pressed her forehead. She looked up and uttered an exclamation of joy.

20053m



ГўВҖВңMaximilian, my dearest brother!ГўВҖВқ she cried.

At these words Madame Morrel rose, and threw herself into her sonГўВҖВҷs
arms.

ГўВҖВңMother,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, looking alternately at Madame Morrel and
her daughter, ГўВҖВңwhat has occurredГўВҖВ”what has happened? Your letter has
frightened me, and I have come hither with all speed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJulie,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Morrel, making a sign to the young man, ГўВҖВңgo and
tell your father that Maximilian has just arrived.ГўВҖВқ

The young lady rushed out of the apartment, but on the first step of
the staircase she found a man holding a letter in his hand.

ГўВҖВңAre you not Mademoiselle Julie Morrel?ГўВҖВқ inquired the man, with a
strong Italian accent.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Julie with hesitation; ГўВҖВңwhat is your pleasure? I do
not know you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRead this letter,ГўВҖВқ he said, handing it to her. Julie hesitated. ГўВҖВңIt
concerns the best interests of your father,ГўВҖВқ said the messenger.

The young girl hastily took the letter from him. She opened it quickly
and read:

ГўВҖВңGo this moment to the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan, enter the house No. 15, ask
the porter for the key of the room on the fifth floor, enter the
apartment, take from the corner of the mantelpiece a purse netted in
red silk, and give it to your father. It is important that he should
receive it before eleven oГўВҖВҷclock. You promised to obey me implicitly.
Remember your oath.

ГўВҖВңSinbad the Sailor.ГўВҖВқ

The young girl uttered a joyful cry, raised her eyes, looked round to
question the messenger, but he had disappeared. She cast her eyes again
over the note to peruse it a second time, and saw there was a
postscript. She read:

ГўВҖВңIt is important that you should fulfil this mission in person and
alone. If you go accompanied by any other person, or should anyone else
go in your place, the porter will reply that he does not know anything
about it.ГўВҖВқ

This postscript decreased greatly the young girlГўВҖВҷs happiness. Was there
nothing to fear? was there not some snare laid for her? Her innocence
had kept her in ignorance of the dangers that might assail a young girl
of her age. But there is no need to know danger in order to fear it;
indeed, it may be observed, that it is usually unknown perils that
inspire the greatest terror.

Julie hesitated, and resolved to take counsel. Yet, through a singular
impulse, it was neither to her mother nor her brother that she applied,
but to Emmanuel. She hastened down and told him what had occurred on
the day when the agent of Thomson & French had come to her fatherГўВҖВҷs,
related the scene on the staircase, repeated the promise she had made,
and showed him the letter.

ГўВҖВңYou must go, then, mademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ said Emmanuel.

ГўВҖВңGo there?ГўВҖВқ murmured Julie.

ГўВҖВңYes; I will accompany you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut did you not read that I must be alone?ГўВҖВқ said Julie.

ГўВҖВңAnd you shall be alone,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man. ГўВҖВңI will await you at
the corner of the Rue du MusГғВ©e, and if you are so long absent as to
make me uneasy, I will hasten to rejoin you, and woe to him of whom you
shall have cause to complain to me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, Emmanuel?ГўВҖВқ said the young girl with hesitation, ГўВҖВңit is your
opinion that I should obey this invitation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. Did not the messenger say your fatherГўВҖВҷs safety depended upon it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what danger threatens him, then, Emmanuel?ГўВҖВқ she asked.

Emmanuel hesitated a moment, but his desire to make Julie decide
immediately made him reply.

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңtoday is the 5th of September, is it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңToday, then, at eleven oГўВҖВҷclock, your father has nearly three hundred
thousand francs to pay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, we know that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ continued Emmanuel, ГўВҖВңwe have not fifteen thousand francs
in the house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat will happen then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, if today before eleven oГўВҖВҷclock your father has not found someone
who will come to his aid, he will be compelled at twelve oГўВҖВҷclock to
declare himself a bankrupt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, come, then, come!ГўВҖВқ cried she, hastening away with the young man.

During this time, Madame Morrel had told her son everything. The young
man knew quite well that, after the succession of misfortunes which had
befallen his father, great changes had taken place in the style of
living and housekeeping; but he did not know that matters had reached
such a point. He was thunderstruck. Then, rushing hastily out of the
apartment, he ran upstairs, expecting to find his father in his study,
but he rapped there in vain.

While he was yet at the door of the study he heard the bedroom door
open, turned, and saw his father. Instead of going direct to his study,
M. Morrel had returned to his bedchamber, which he was only this moment
quitting. Morrel uttered a cry of surprise at the sight of his son, of
whose arrival he was ignorant. He remained motionless on the spot,
pressing with his left hand something he had concealed under his coat.
Maximilian sprang down the staircase, and threw his arms round his
fatherГўВҖВҷs neck; but suddenly he recoiled, and placed his right hand on
MorrelГўВҖВҷs breast.

ГўВҖВңFather,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, turning pale as death, ГўВҖВңwhat are you going to
do with that brace of pistols under your coat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, this is what I feared!ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңFather, father, in HeavenГўВҖВҷs name,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young man, ГўВҖВңwhat are
these weapons for?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel, looking fixedly at his son, ГўВҖВңyou are a
man, and a man of honor. Come, and I will explain to you.ГўВҖВқ

And with a firm step Morrel went up to his study, while Maximilian
followed him, trembling as he went. Morrel opened the door, and closed
it behind his son; then, crossing the anteroom, went to his desk on
which he placed the pistols, and pointed with his finger to an open
ledger. In this ledger was made out an exact balance-sheet of his
affairs. Morrel had to pay, within half an hour, 287,500 francs. All he
possessed was 15,257 francs.

ГўВҖВңRead!ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

The young man was overwhelmed as he read. Morrel said not a word. What
could he say? What need he add to such a desperate proof in figures?

ГўВҖВңAnd have you done all that is possible, father, to meet this
disastrous result?ГўВҖВқ asked the young man, after a momentГўВҖВҷs pause.

ГўВҖВңI have,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel.

ГўВҖВңYou have no money coming in on which you can rely?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have exhausted every resource?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd in half an hour,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian in a gloomy voice, ГўВҖВңour name is
dishonored!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBlood washes out dishonor,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңYou are right, father; I understand you.ГўВҖВқ Then extending his hand
towards one of the pistols, he said, ГўВҖВңThere is one for you and one for
meГўВҖВ”thanks!ГўВҖВқ

Morrel caught his hand. ГўВҖВңYour motherГўВҖВ”your sister! Who will support
them?ГўВҖВқ

A shudder ran through the young manГўВҖВҷs frame. ГўВҖВңFather,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңdo you
reflect that you are bidding me to live?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I do so bid you,ГўВҖВқ answered Morrel, ГўВҖВңit is your duty. You have a
calm, strong mind, Maximilian. Maximilian, you are no ordinary man. I
make no requests or commands; I only ask you to examine my position as
if it were your own, and then judge for yourself.ГўВҖВқ

The young man reflected for a moment, then an expression of sublime
resignation appeared in his eyes, and with a slow and sad gesture he
took off his two epaulets, the insignia of his rank.

ГўВҖВңBe it so, then, my father,ГўВҖВқ he said, extending his hand to Morrel,
ГўВҖВңdie in peace, my father; I will live.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel was about to cast himself on his knees before his son, but
Maximilian caught him in his arms, and those two noble hearts were
pressed against each other for a moment.

ГўВҖВңYou know it is not my fault,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

20057m



Maximilian smiled. ГўВҖВңI know, father, you are the most honorable man I
have ever known.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood, my son. And now there is no more to be said; go and rejoin your
mother and sister.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, bending his knee, ГўВҖВңbless me!ГўВҖВқ Morrel
took the head of his son between his two hands, drew him forward, and
kissing his forehead several times said:

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, yes, I bless you in my own name, and in the name of three
generations of irreproachable men, who say through me, ГўВҖВҳThe edifice
which misfortune has destroyed, Providence may build up again.ГўВҖВҷ On
seeing me die such a death, the most inexorable will have pity on you.
To you, perhaps, they will accord the time they have refused to me.
Then do your best to keep our name free from dishonor. Go to work,
labor, young man, struggle ardently and courageously; live, yourself,
your mother and sister, with the most rigid economy, so that from day
to day the property of those whom I leave in your hands may augment and
fructify. Reflect how glorious a day it will be, how grand, how solemn,
that day of complete restoration, on which you will say in this very
office, ГўВҖВҳMy father died because he could not do what I have this day
done; but he died calmly and peaceably, because in dying he knew what I
should do.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father, my father!ГўВҖВқ cried the young man, ГўВҖВңwhy should you not live?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I live, all would be changed; if I live, interest would be
converted into doubt, pity into hostility; if I live I am only a man
who has broken his word, failed in his engagementsГўВҖВ”in fact, only a
bankrupt. If, on the contrary, I die, remember, Maximilian, my corpse
is that of an honest but unfortunate man. Living, my best friends would
avoid my house; dead, all Marseilles will follow me in tears to my last
home. Living, you would feel shame at my name; dead, you may raise your
head and say, ГўВҖВҳI am the son of him you killed, because, for the first
time, he has been compelled to break his word.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

The young man uttered a groan, but appeared resigned.

ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңleave me alone, and endeavor to keep your
mother and sister away.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you not see my sister once more?ГўВҖВқ asked Maximilian. A last but
final hope was concealed by the young man in the effect of this
interview, and therefore he had suggested it. Morrel shook his head. ГўВҖВңI
saw her this morning, and bade her adieu.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you no particular commands to leave with me, my father?ГўВҖВқ inquired
Maximilian in a faltering voice.

ГўВҖВңYes; my son, and a sacred command.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay it, my father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe house of Thomson & French is the only one who, from humanity, or,
it may be, selfishnessГўВҖВ”it is not for me to read menГўВҖВҷs heartsГўВҖВ”has had
any pity for me. Its agent, who will in ten minutes present himself to
receive the amount of a bill of 287,500 francs, I will not say granted,
but offered me three months. Let this house be the first repaid, my
son, and respect this man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFather, I will,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian.

ГўВҖВңAnd now, once more, adieu,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. ГўВҖВңGo, leave me; I would be
alone. You will find my will in the secretaire in my bedroom.ГўВҖВқ

The young man remained standing and motionless, having but the force of
will and not the power of execution.

ГўВҖВңHear me, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ said his father. ГўВҖВңSuppose I were a soldier like
you, and ordered to carry a certain redoubt, and you knew I must be
killed in the assault, would you not say to me, as you said just now,
ГўВҖВҳGo, father; for you are dishonored by delay, and death is preferable
to shame!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңyes;ГўВҖВқ and once again embracing his
father with convulsive pressure, he said, ГўВҖВңBe it so, my father.ГўВҖВқ

And he rushed out of the study. When his son had left him, Morrel
remained an instant standing with his eyes fixed on the door; then
putting forth his arm, he pulled the bell. After a momentГўВҖВҷs interval,
Cocles appeared.

It was no longer the same manГўВҖВ”the fearful revelations of the three last
days had crushed him. This thoughtГўВҖВ”the house of Morrel is about to stop
paymentГўВҖВ”bent him to the earth more than twenty years would otherwise
have done.

ГўВҖВңMy worthy Cocles,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel in a tone impossible to describe, ГўВҖВңdo
you remain in the antechamber. When the gentleman who came three months
agoГўВҖВ”the agent of Thomson & FrenchГўВҖВ”arrives, announce his arrival to me.ГўВҖВқ

Cocles made no reply; he made a sign with his head, went into the
anteroom, and seated himself. Morrel fell back in his chair, his eyes
fixed on the clock; there were seven minutes left, that was all. The
hand moved on with incredible rapidity, he seemed to see its motion.

What passed in the mind of this man at the supreme moment of his agony
cannot be told in words. He was still comparatively young, he was
surrounded by the loving care of a devoted family, but he had convinced
himself by a course of reasoning, illogical perhaps, yet certainly
plausible, that he must separate himself from all he held dear in the
world, even life itself. To form the slightest idea of his feelings,
one must have seen his face with its expression of enforced resignation
and its tear-moistened eyes raised to heaven. The minute hand moved on.
The pistols were loaded; he stretched forth his hand, took one up, and
murmured his daughterГўВҖВҷs name. Then he laid it down, seized his pen, and
wrote a few words. It seemed to him as if he had not taken a sufficient
farewell of his beloved daughter. Then he turned again to the clock,
counting time now not by minutes, but by seconds.

He took up the deadly weapon again, his lips parted and his eyes fixed
on the clock, and then shuddered at the click of the trigger as he
cocked the pistol. At this moment of mortal anguish the cold sweat came
forth upon his brow, a pang stronger than death clutched at his
heart-strings. He heard the door of the staircase creak on its
hingesГўВҖВ”the clock gave its warning to strike elevenГўВҖВ”the door of his
study opened. Morrel did not turn roundГўВҖВ”he expected these words of
Cocles, ГўВҖВңThe agent of Thomson & French.ГўВҖВқ

He placed the muzzle of the pistol between his teeth. Suddenly he heard
a cryГўВҖВ”it was his daughterГўВҖВҷs voice. He turned and saw Julie. The pistol
fell from his hands.

ГўВҖВңMy father!ГўВҖВқ cried the young girl, out of breath, and half dead with
joyГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңsaved, you are saved!ГўВҖВқ And she threw herself into his arms,
holding in her extended hand a red, netted silk purse.

20061m



ГўВҖВңSaved, my child!ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңwhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, savedГўВҖВ”saved! See, see!ГўВҖВқ said the young girl.

Morrel took the purse, and started as he did so, for a vague
remembrance reminded him that it once belonged to himself. At one end
was the receipted bill for the 287,000 francs, and at the other was a
diamond as large as a hazel-nut, with these words on a small slip of
parchment: _JulieГўВҖВҷs Dowry_.

Morrel passed his hand over his brow; it seemed to him a dream. At this
moment the clock struck eleven. He felt as if each stroke of the hammer
fell upon his heart.

ГўВҖВңExplain, my child,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңExplain, my child,ГўВҖВқ he said,
ГўВҖВңexplainГўВҖВ”where did you find this purse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn a house in the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan, No. 15, on the corner of a
mantelpiece in a small room on the fifth floor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, ГўВҖВңthis purse is not yours!ГўВҖВқ Julie handed to her
father the letter she had received in the morning.

ГўВҖВңAnd did you go alone?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel, after he had read it.

ГўВҖВңEmmanuel accompanied me, father. He was to have waited for me at the
corner of the Rue du MusГғВ©e, but, strange to say, he was not there when
I returned.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Morrel!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed a voice on the stairs; ГўВҖВңMonsieur Morrel!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is his voice!ГўВҖВқ said Julie. At this moment Emmanuel entered, his
countenance full of animation and joy.

ГўВҖВңThe _Pharaon_!ГўВҖВқ he cried; ГўВҖВңthe _Pharaon_!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat!ГўВҖВ”what!ГўВҖВ”the _Pharaon_! Are you mad, Emmanuel? You know the vessel
is lost.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe _Pharaon_, sirГўВҖВ”they signal the _Pharaon_! The _Pharaon_ is
entering the harbor!ГўВҖВқ

Morrel fell back in his chair, his strength was failing him; his
understanding weakened by such events, refused to comprehend such
incredible, unheard-of, fabulous facts. But his son came in.

ГўВҖВңFather,ГўВҖВқ cried Maximilian, ГўВҖВңhow could you say the _Pharaon_ was lost?
The lookout has signalled her, and they say she is now coming into
port.ГўВҖВқ

20063m



ГўВҖВңMy dear friends,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңif this be so, it must be a miracle of
heaven! Impossible, impossible!ГўВҖВқ

But what was real and not less incredible was the purse he held in his
hand, the acceptance receiptedГўВҖВ”the splendid diamond.

ГўВҖВңAh, sir,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Cocles, ГўВҖВңwhat can it mean?ГўВҖВ”the _Pharaon_?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, dear ones,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, rising from his seat, ГўВҖВңlet us go and
see, and Heaven have pity upon us if it be false intelligence!ГўВҖВқ

They all went out, and on the stairs met Madame Morrel, who had been
afraid to go up into the study. In a moment they were at the CanebiГғВЁre.
There was a crowd on the pier. All the crowd gave way before Morrel.
ГўВҖВңThe _Pharaon_! the _Pharaon_!ГўВҖВқ said every voice.

And, wonderful to see, in front of the tower of Saint-Jean, was a ship
bearing on her stern these words, printed in white letters, ГўВҖВңThe
_Pharaon_, Morrel & Son, of Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ She was the exact duplicate of
the other _Pharaon_, and loaded, as that had been, with cochineal and
indigo. She cast anchor, clued up sails, and on the deck was Captain
Gaumard giving orders, and good old Penelon making signals to M.
Morrel. To doubt any longer was impossible; there was the evidence of
the senses, and ten thousand persons who came to corroborate the
testimony.

As Morrel and his son embraced on the pier-head, in the presence and
amid the applause of the whole city witnessing this event, a man, with
his face half-covered by a black beard, and who, concealed behind the
sentry-box, watched the scene with delight, uttered these words in a
low tone:

ГўВҖВңBe happy, noble heart, be blessed for all the good thou hast done and
wilt do hereafter, and let my gratitude remain in obscurity like your
good deeds.ГўВҖВқ

20064m



And with a smile expressive of supreme content, he left his
hiding-place, and without being observed, descended one of the flights
of steps provided for debarkation, and hailing three times, shouted
ГўВҖВңJacopo, Jacopo, Jacopo!ГўВҖВқ

Then a launch came to shore, took him on board, and conveyed him to a
yacht splendidly fitted up, on whose deck he sprung with the activity
of a sailor; thence he once again looked towards Morrel, who, weeping
with joy, was shaking hands most cordially with all the crowd around
him, and thanking with a look the unknown benefactor whom he seemed to
be seeking in the skies.

ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ said the unknown, ГўВҖВңfarewell kindness, humanity, and
gratitude! Farewell to all the feelings that expand the heart! I have
been HeavenГўВҖВҷs substitute to recompense the goodГўВҖВ”now the god of
vengeance yields to me his power to punish the wicked!ГўВҖВқ

At these words he gave a signal, and, as if only awaiting this signal,
the yacht instantly put out to sea.



 Chapter 31. Italy: Sinbad the Sailor

Towards the beginning of the year 1838, two young men belonging to the
first society of Paris, the Viscount Albert de Morcerf and the Baron
Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, were at Florence. They had agreed to see the Carnival
at Rome that year, and that Franz, who for the last three or four years
had inhabited Italy, should act as _cicerone_ to Albert.

As it is no inconsiderable affair to spend the Carnival at Rome,
especially when you have no great desire to sleep on the Piazza del
Popolo, or the Campo Vaccino, they wrote to Signor Pastrini, the
proprietor of the HГғВҙtel de Londres, Piazza di Spagna, to reserve
comfortable apartments for them. Signor Pastrini replied that he had
only two rooms and a parlor on the third floor, which he offered at the
low charge of a louis per diem. They accepted his offer; but wishing to
make the best use of the time that was left, Albert started for Naples.
As for Franz, he remained at Florence, and after having passed a few
days in exploring the paradise of the Cascine, and spending two or
three evenings at the houses of the Florentine nobility, he took a
fancy into his head (having already visited Corsica, the cradle of
Bonaparte) to visit Elba, the waiting-place of Napoleon.

One evening he cast off the painter of a sailboat from the iron ring
that secured it to the dock at Leghorn, wrapped himself in his coat and
lay down, and said to the crew,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңTo the Island of Elba!ГўВҖВқ

The boat shot out of the harbor like a bird and the next morning Franz
disembarked at Porto-Ferrajo. He traversed the island, after having
followed the traces which the footsteps of the giant have left, and
re-embarked for Marciana.

Two hours after he again landed at Pianosa, where he was assured that
red partridges abounded. The sport was bad; Franz only succeeded in
killing a few partridges, and, like every unsuccessful sportsman, he
returned to the boat very much out of temper.

ГўВҖВңAh, if your excellency chose,ГўВҖВқ said the captain, ГўВҖВңyou might have
capital sport.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you see that island?ГўВҖВқ continued the captain, pointing to a conical
pile rising from the indigo sea.

ГўВҖВңWell, what is this island?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Island of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I have no permission to shoot over this island.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency does not require a permit, for the island is
uninhabited.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed!ГўВҖВқ said the young man. ГўВҖВңA desert island in the midst of the
Mediterranean must be a curiosity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is very natural; this island is a mass of rocks, and does not
contain an acre of land capable of cultivation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo whom does this island belong?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Tuscany.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat game shall I find there!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThousands of wild goats.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho live upon the stones, I suppose,ГўВҖВқ said Franz with an incredulous
smile.

ГўВҖВңNo, but by browsing the shrubs and trees that grow out of the crevices
of the rocks.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere can I sleep?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn shore in the grottos, or on board in your cloak; besides, if your
excellency pleases, we can leave as soon as you likeГўВҖВ”we can sail as
well by night as by day, and if the wind drops we can use our oars.ГўВҖВқ

As Franz had sufficient time, and his apartments at Rome were not yet
available, he accepted the proposition. Upon his answer in the
affirmative, the sailors exchanged a few words together in a low tone.
ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ asked he, ГўВҖВңwhat now? Is there any difficulty in the way?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ replied the captain, ГўВҖВңbut we must warn your excellency that the
island is an infected port.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonte Cristo although uninhabited, yet serves occasionally as a refuge
for the smugglers and pirates who come from Corsica, Sardinia, and
Africa, and if it becomes known that we have been there, we shall have
to perform quarantine for six days on our return to Leghorn.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe deuce! That puts a different face on the matter. Six days! Why,
thatГўВҖВҷs as long as the Almighty took to make the world! Too long a
waitГўВҖВ”too long.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut who will say your excellency has been to Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I shall not,ГўВҖВқ cried Franz.

ГўВҖВңNor I, nor I,ГўВҖВқ chorused the sailors.

ГўВҖВңThen steer for Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

The captain gave his orders, the helm was put up, and the boat was soon
sailing in the direction of the island. Franz waited until all was in
order, and when the sail was filled, and the four sailors had taken
their placesГўВҖВ”three forward, and one at the helmГўВҖВ”he resumed the
conversation. ГўВҖВңGaetano,ГўВҖВқ said he to the captain, ГўВҖВңyou tell me Monte
Cristo serves as a refuge for pirates, who are, it seems to me, a very
different kind of game from the goats.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency, and it is true.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI knew there were smugglers, but I thought that since the capture of
Algiers, and the destruction of the regency, pirates existed only in
the romances of Cooper and Captain Marryat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency is mistaken; there are pirates, like the bandits who
were believed to have been exterminated by Pope Leo XII., and who yet,
every day, rob travellers at the gates of Rome. Has not your excellency
heard that the French _chargГғВ© dГўВҖВҷaffaires_ was robbed six months ago
within five hundred paces of Velletri?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, I heard that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, if, like us, your excellency lived at Leghorn, you would
hear, from time to time, that a little merchant vessel, or an English
yacht that was expected at Bastia, at Porto-Ferrajo, or at Civita
Vecchia, has not arrived; no one knows what has become of it, but,
doubtless, it has struck on a rock and foundered. Now this rock it has
met has been a long and narrow boat, manned by six or eight men, who
have surprised and plundered it, some dark and stormy night, near some
desert and gloomy island, as bandits plunder a carriage in the recesses
of a forest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ asked Franz, who lay wrapped in his cloak at the bottom of the
boat, ГўВҖВңwhy do not those who have been plundered complain to the French,
Sardinian, or Tuscan governments?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ said Gaetano with a smile.

ГўВҖВңYes, why?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause, in the first place, they transfer from the vessel to their
own boat whatever they think worth taking, then they bind the crew hand
and foot, they attach to everyoneГўВҖВҷs neck a four-and-twenty-pound ball,
a large hole is chopped in the vesselГўВҖВҷs bottom, and then they leave
her. At the end of ten minutes the vessel begins to roll heavily and
settle down. First one gunГўВҖВҷl goes under, then the other. Then they lift
and sink again, and both go under at once. All at once thereГўВҖВҷs a noise
like a cannonГўВҖВ”thatГўВҖВҷs the air blowing up the deck. Soon the water rushes
out of the scupper-holes like a whale spouting, the vessel gives a last
groan, spins round and round, and disappears, forming a vast whirlpool
in the ocean, and then all is over, so that in five minutes nothing but
the eye of God can see the vessel where she lies at the bottom of the
sea. Do you understand now,ГўВҖВқ said the captain, ГўВҖВңwhy no complaints are
made to the government, and why the vessel never reaches port?ГўВҖВқ

It is probable that if Gaetano had related this previous to proposing
the expedition, Franz would have hesitated, but now that they had
started, he thought it would be cowardly to draw back. He was one of
those men who do not rashly court danger, but if danger presents
itself, combat it with the most unalterable coolness. Calm and
resolute, he treated any peril as he would an adversary in a
duel,ГўВҖВ”calculated its probable method of approach; retreated, if at all,
as a point of strategy and not from cowardice; was quick to see an
opening for attack, and won victory at a single thrust.

ГўВҖВңBah!ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI have travelled through Sicily and CalabriaГўВҖВ”I have
sailed two months in the Archipelago, and yet I never saw even the
shadow of a bandit or a pirate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did not tell your excellency this to deter you from your project,ГўВҖВқ
replied Gaetano, ГўВҖВңbut you questioned me, and I have answered; thatГўВҖВҷs
all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and your conversation is most interesting; and as I wish to enjoy
it as long as possible, steer for Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

The wind blew strongly, the boat made six or seven knots an hour, and
they were rapidly reaching the end of their voyage. As they drew near
the island seemed to lift from the sea, and the air was so clear that
they could already distinguish the rocks heaped on one another, like
cannon balls in an arsenal, with green bushes and trees growing in the
crevices. As for the sailors, although they appeared perfectly tranquil
yet it was evident that they were on the alert, and that they carefully
watched the glassy surface over which they were sailing, and on which a
few fishing-boats, with their white sails, were alone visible.

They were within fifteen miles of Monte Cristo when the sun began to
set behind Corsica, whose mountains appeared against the sky, showing
their rugged peaks in bold relief; this mass of rock, like the giant
Adamastor, rose dead ahead, a formidable barrier, and intercepting the
light that gilded its massive peaks so that the voyagers were in
shadow. Little by little the shadow rose higher and seemed to drive
before it the last rays of the expiring day; at last the reflection
rested on the summit of the mountain, where it paused an instant, like
the fiery crest of a volcano, then gloom gradually covered the summit
as it had covered the base, and the island now only appeared to be a
gray mountain that grew continually darker; half an hour after, the
night was quite dark.

Fortunately, the mariners were used to these latitudes, and knew every
rock in the Tuscan Archipelago; for in the midst of this obscurity
Franz was not without uneasinessГўВҖВ”Corsica had long since disappeared,
and Monte Cristo itself was invisible; but the sailors seemed, like the
lynx, to see in the dark, and the pilot who steered did not evince the
slightest hesitation.

An hour had passed since the sun had set, when Franz fancied he saw, at
a quarter of a mile to the left, a dark mass, but he could not
precisely make out what it was, and fearing to excite the mirth of the
sailors by mistaking a floating cloud for land, he remained silent;
suddenly a great light appeared on the strand; land might resemble a
cloud, but the fire was not a meteor.

ГўВҖВңWhat is this light?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңHush!ГўВҖВқ said the captain; ГўВҖВңit is a fire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you told me the island was uninhabited?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI said there were no fixed habitations on it, but I said also that it
served sometimes as a harbor for smugglers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd for pirates?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd for pirates,ГўВҖВқ returned Gaetano, repeating FranzГўВҖВҷs words. ГўВҖВңIt is
for that reason I have given orders to pass the island, for, as you
see, the fire is behind us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut this fire?ГўВҖВқ continued Franz. ГўВҖВңIt seems to me rather reassuring
than otherwise; men who did not wish to be seen would not light a
fire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that goes for nothing,ГўВҖВқ said Gaetano. ГўВҖВңIf you can guess the
position of the island in the darkness, you will see that the fire
cannot be seen from the side or from Pianosa, but only from the sea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou think, then, this fire indicates the presence of unpleasant
neighbors?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is what we must find out,ГўВҖВқ returned Gaetano, fixing his eyes on
this terrestrial star.

ГўВҖВңHow can you find out?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou shall see.ГўВҖВқ

Gaetano consulted with his companions, and after five minutesГўВҖВҷ
discussion a manГ…В“uvre was executed which caused the vessel to tack
about, they returned the way they had come, and in a few minutes the
fire disappeared, hidden by an elevation of the land. The pilot again
changed the course of the boat, which rapidly approached the island,
and was soon within fifty paces of it. Gaetano lowered the sail, and
the boat came to rest. All this was done in silence, and from the
moment that their course was changed not a word was spoken.

Gaetano, who had proposed the expedition, had taken all the
responsibility on himself; the four sailors fixed their eyes on him,
while they got out their oars and held themselves in readiness to row
away, which, thanks to the darkness, would not be difficult. As for
Franz, he examined his arms with the utmost coolness; he had two
double-barrelled guns and a rifle; he loaded them, looked at the
priming, and waited quietly.

During this time the captain had thrown off his vest and shirt, and
secured his trousers round his waist; his feet were naked, so he had no
shoes and stockings to take off; after these preparations he placed his
finger on his lips, and lowering himself noiselessly into the sea, swam
towards the shore with such precaution that it was impossible to hear
the slightest sound; he could only be traced by the phosphorescent line
in his wake. This track soon disappeared; it was evident that he had
touched the shore.

Everyone on board remained motionless for half an hour, when the same
luminous track was again observed, and the swimmer was soon on board.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Franz and the sailors in unison.

ГўВҖВңThey are Spanish smugglers,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңthey have with them two
Corsican bandits.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what are these Corsican bandits doing here with Spanish
smugglers?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ returned the captain with an accent of the most profound pity,
ГўВҖВңwe ought always to help one another. Very often the bandits are hard
pressed by gendarmes or carbineers; well, they see a vessel, and good
fellows like us on board, they come and demand hospitality of us; you
canГўВҖВҷt refuse help to a poor hunted devil; we receive them, and for
greater security we stand out to sea. This costs us nothing, and saves
the life, or at least the liberty, of a fellow-creature, who on the
first occasion returns the service by pointing out some safe spot where
we can land our goods without interruption.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh!ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңthen you are a smuggler occasionally, Gaetano?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency, we must live somehow,ГўВҖВқ returned the other, smiling
impenetrably.

ГўВҖВңThen you know the men who are now on Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, we sailors are like freemasons, and recognize each other by
signs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you think we have nothing to fear if we land?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing at all; smugglers are not thieves.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut these two Corsican bandits?ГўВҖВқ said Franz, calculating the chances
of peril.

ГўВҖВңIt is not their fault that they are bandits, but that of the
authorities.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause they are pursued for having made a stiff, as if it was not in
a CorsicanГўВҖВҷs nature to revenge himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean by having made a stiff?ГўВҖВ”having assassinated a man?ГўВҖВқ
said Franz, continuing his investigation.

ГўВҖВңI mean that they have killed an enemy, which is a very different
thing,ГўВҖВқ returned the captain.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңlet us demand hospitality of these
smugglers and bandits. Do you think they will grant it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWithout doubt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow many are they?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFour, and the two bandits make six.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust our number, so that if they prove troublesome, we shall be able
to hold them in check; so, for the last time, steer to Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but your excellency will permit us to take all due precautions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy all means, be as wise as Nestor and as prudent as Ulysses; I do
more than permit, I exhort you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSilence, then!ГўВҖВқ said Gaetano.

Everyone obeyed. For a man who, like Franz, viewed his position in its
true light, it was a grave one. He was alone in the darkness with
sailors whom he did not know, and who had no reason to be devoted to
him; who knew that he had several thousand francs in his belt, and who
had often examined his weapons,ГўВҖВ”which were very beautiful,ГўВҖВ”if not with
envy, at least with curiosity. On the other hand, he was about to land,
without any other escort than these men, on an island which had,
indeed, a very religious name, but which did not seem to Franz likely
to afford him much hospitality, thanks to the smugglers and bandits.
The history of the scuttled vessels, which had appeared improbable
during the day, seemed very probable at night; placed as he was between
two possible sources of danger, he kept his eye on the crew, and his
gun in his hand.

The sailors had again hoisted sail, and the vessel was once more
cleaving the waves. Through the darkness Franz, whose eyes were now
more accustomed to it, could see the looming shore along which the boat
was sailing, and then, as they rounded a rocky point, he saw the fire
more brilliant than ever, and about it five or six persons seated. The
blaze illumined the sea for a hundred paces around. Gaetano skirted the
light, carefully keeping the boat in the shadow; then, when they were
opposite the fire, he steered to the centre of the circle, singing a
fishing song, of which his companions sung the chorus.

At the first words of the song the men seated round the fire arose and
approached the landing-place, their eyes fixed on the boat, evidently
seeking to know who the new-comers were and what were their intentions.
They soon appeared satisfied and returned (with the exception of one,
who remained at the shore) to their fire, at which the carcass of a
goat was roasting. When the boat was within twenty paces of the shore,
the man on the beach, who carried a carbine, presented arms after the
manner of a sentinel, and cried, ГўВҖВңWho comes there?ГўВҖВқ in Sardinian.

Franz coolly cocked both barrels. Gaetano then exchanged a few words
with this man which the traveller did not understand, but which
evidently concerned him.

ГўВҖВңWill your excellency give your name, or remain _incognito_?ГўВҖВқ asked the
captain.

ГўВҖВңMy name must rest unknown,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz; ГўВҖВңmerely say I am a
Frenchman travelling for pleasure.ГўВҖВқ

As soon as Gaetano had transmitted this answer, the sentinel gave an
order to one of the men seated round the fire, who rose and disappeared
among the rocks. Not a word was spoken, everyone seemed occupied, Franz
with his disembarkment, the sailors with their sails, the smugglers
with their goat; but in the midst of all this carelessness it was
evident that they mutually observed each other.

The man who had disappeared returned suddenly on the opposite side to
that by which he had left; he made a sign with his head to the
sentinel, who, turning to the boat, said, ГўВҖВң_SГўВҖВҷaccommodi_.ГўВҖВқ The Italian
_sГўВҖВҷaccommodi_ is untranslatable; it means at once, ГўВҖВңCome, enter, you
are welcome; make yourself at home; you are the master.ГўВҖВқ It is like
that Turkish phrase of MoliГғВЁreГўВҖВҷs that so astonished the bourgeois
gentleman by the number of things implied in its utterance.

The sailors did not wait for a second invitation; four strokes of the
oar brought them to land; Gaetano sprang to shore, exchanged a few
words with the sentinel, then his comrades disembarked, and lastly came
Franz. One of his guns was swung over his shoulder, Gaetano had the
other, and a sailor held his rifle; his dress, half artist, half dandy,
did not excite any suspicion, and, consequently, no disquietude. The
boat was moored to the shore, and they advanced a few paces to find a
comfortable bivouac; but, doubtless, the spot they chose did not suit
the smuggler who filled the post of sentinel, for he cried out:

ГўВҖВңNot that way, if you please.ГўВҖВқ

Gaetano faltered an excuse, and advanced to the opposite side, while
two sailors kindled torches at the fire to light them on their way.

They advanced about thirty paces, and then stopped at a small esplanade
surrounded with rocks, in which seats had been cut, not unlike
sentry-boxes. Around in the crevices of the rocks grew a few dwarf oaks
and thick bushes of myrtles. Franz lowered a torch, and saw by the mass
of cinders that had accumulated that he was not the first to discover
this retreat, which was, doubtless, one of the halting-places of the
wandering visitors of Monte Cristo.

As for his suspicions, once on _terra firma_, once that he had seen the
indifferent, if not friendly, appearance of his hosts, his anxiety had
quite disappeared, or rather, at sight of the goat, had turned to
appetite. He mentioned this to Gaetano, who replied that nothing could
be more easy than to prepare a supper when they had in their boat,
bread, wine, half a dozen partridges, and a good fire to roast them by.

ГўВҖВңBesides,ГўВҖВқ added he, ГўВҖВңif the smell of their roast meat tempts you, I
will go and offer them two of our birds for a slice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are a born diplomat,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz; ГўВҖВңgo and try.ГўВҖВқ

Meanwhile the sailors had collected dried sticks and branches with
which they made a fire. Franz waited impatiently, inhaling the aroma of
the roasted meat, when the captain returned with a mysterious air.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңanything new?ГўВҖВ”do they refuse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary,ГўВҖВқ returned Gaetano, ГўВҖВңthe chief, who was told you were
a young Frenchman, invites you to sup with him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ observed Franz, ГўВҖВңthis chief is very polite, and I see no
objectionГўВҖВ”the more so as I bring my share of the supper.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is not that; he has plenty, and to spare, for supper; but he
makes one condition, and rather a peculiar one, before he will receive
you at his house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis house? Has he built one here, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, but he has a very comfortable one all the same, so they say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know this chief, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have heard talk of him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFavorably or otherwise?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBoth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe deuce!ГўВҖВ”and what is this condition?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat you are blindfolded, and do not take off the bandage until he
himself bids you.ГўВҖВқ

Franz looked at Gaetano, to see, if possible, what he thought of this
proposal. ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ replied he, guessing FranzГўВҖВҷs thought, ГўВҖВңI know this is a
serious matter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat should you do in my place?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI, who have nothing to lose,ГўВҖВ”I should go.ГўВҖВқ

20075m



ГўВҖВңYou would accept?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, were it only out of curiosity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is something very peculiar about this chief, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said Gaetano, lowering his voice, ГўВҖВңI do not know if what they
say is trueГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”he stopped to see if anyone was near.

ГўВҖВңWhat do they say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat this chief inhabits a cavern to which the Pitti Palace is
nothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat nonsense!ГўВҖВқ said Franz, reseating himself.

ГўВҖВңIt is no nonsense; it is quite true. Cama, the pilot of the _Saint
Ferdinand_, went in once, and he came back amazed, vowing that such
treasures were only to be heard of in fairy tales.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know,ГўВҖВқ observed Franz, ГўВҖВңthat with such stories you make me
think of Ali BabaГўВҖВҷs enchanted cavern?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI tell you what I have been told.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you advise me to accept?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I donГўВҖВҷt say that; your excellency will do as you please; I should
be sorry to advise you in the matter.ГўВҖВқ

Franz pondered the matter for a few moments, concluded that a man so
rich could not have any intention of plundering him of what little he
had, and seeing only the prospect of a good supper, accepted. Gaetano
departed with the reply. Franz was prudent, and wished to learn all he
possibly could concerning his host. He turned towards the sailor, who,
during this dialogue, had sat gravely plucking the partridges with the
air of a man proud of his office, and asked him how these men had
landed, as no vessel of any kind was visible.

ГўВҖВңNever mind that,ГўВҖВқ returned the sailor, ГўВҖВңI know their vessel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it a very beautiful vessel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI would not wish for a better to sail round the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf what burden is she?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbout a hundred tons; but she is built to stand any weather. She is
what the English call a yacht.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere was she built?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know not; but my own opinion is she is a Genoese.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how did a leader of smugglers,ГўВҖВқ continued Franz, ГўВҖВңventure to build
a vessel designed for such a purpose at Genoa?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did not say that the owner was a smuggler,ГўВҖВқ replied the sailor.

ГўВҖВңNo; but Gaetano did, I thought.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGaetano had only seen the vessel from a distance, he had not then
spoken to anyone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd if this person be not a smuggler, who is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA wealthy signor, who travels for his pleasure.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ thought Franz, ГўВҖВңhe is still more mysterious, since the two
accounts do not agree.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is his name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you ask him, he says Sinbad the Sailor; but I doubt if it be his
real name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSinbad the Sailor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where does he reside?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the sea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat country does he come from?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you ever seen him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSometimes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat sort of a man is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency will judge for yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere will he receive me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo doubt in the subterranean palace Gaetano told you of.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you never had the curiosity, when you have landed and found this
island deserted, to seek for this enchanted palace?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, more than once, but always in vain; we examined the grotto
all over, but we never could find the slightest trace of any opening;
they say that the door is not opened by a key, but a magic word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDecidedly,ГўВҖВқ muttered Franz, ГўВҖВңthis is an Arabian NightsГўВҖВҷ adventure.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis excellency waits for you,ГўВҖВқ said a voice, which he recognized as
that of the sentinel. He was accompanied by two of the yachtГўВҖВҷs crew.

Franz drew his handkerchief from his pocket, and presented it to the
man who had spoken to him. Without uttering a word, they bandaged his
eyes with a care that showed their apprehensions of his committing some
indiscretion. Afterwards he was made to promise that he would not make
the least attempt to raise the bandage. He promised.

Then his two guides took his arms, and he went on, guided by them, and
preceded by the sentinel. After going about thirty paces, he smelt the
appetizing odor of the kid that was roasting, and knew thus that he was
passing the bivouac; they then led him on about fifty paces farther,
evidently advancing towards that part of the shore where they would not
allow Gaetano to goГўВҖВ”a refusal he could now comprehend.

Presently, by a change in the atmosphere, he knew that they were
entering a cave; after going on for a few seconds more he heard a
crackling, and it seemed to him as though the atmosphere again changed,
and became balmy and perfumed. At length his feet touched on a thick
and soft carpet, and his guides let go their hold of him. There was a
momentГўВҖВҷs silence, and then a voice, in excellent French, although, with
a foreign accent, said:

ГўВҖВңWelcome, sir. I beg you will remove your bandage.ГўВҖВқ

It may be supposed, then, Franz did not wait for a repetition of this
permission, but took off the handkerchief, and found himself in the
presence of a man from thirty-eight to forty years of age, dressed in a
Tunisian costume, that is to say, a red cap with a long blue silk
tassel, a vest of black cloth embroidered with gold, pantaloons of deep
red, large and full gaiters of the same color, embroidered with gold
like the vest, and yellow slippers; he had a splendid cashmere round
his waist, and a small sharp and crooked cangiar was passed through his
girdle.

Although of a paleness that was almost livid, this man had a remarkably
handsome face; his eyes were penetrating and sparkling; his nose, quite
straight, and projecting direct from the brow, was of the pure Greek
type, while his teeth, as white as pearls, were set off to admiration
by the black moustache that encircled them.

His pallor was so peculiar, that it seemed to pertain to one who had
been long entombed, and who was incapable of resuming the healthy glow
and hue of life. He was not particularly tall, but extremely well made,
and, like the men of the South, had small hands and feet. But what
astonished Franz, who had treated GaetanoГўВҖВҷs description as a fable, was
the splendor of the apartment in which he found himself.

The entire chamber was lined with crimson brocade, worked with flowers
of gold. In a recess was a kind of divan, surmounted with a stand of
Arabian swords in silver scabbards, and the handles resplendent with
gems; from the ceiling hung a lamp of Venetian glass, of beautiful
shape and color, while the feet rested on a Turkey carpet, in which
they sunk to the instep; tapestry hung before the door by which Franz
had entered, and also in front of another door, leading into a second
apartment which seemed to be brilliantly illuminated.

The host gave Franz time to recover from his surprise, and, moreover,
returned look for look, not even taking his eyes off him.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ he said, after a pause, ГўВҖВңa thousand excuses for the precaution
taken in your introduction hither; but as, during the greater portion
of the year, this island is deserted, if the secret of this abode were
discovered, I should doubtless, find on my return my temporary
retirement in a state of great disorder, which would be exceedingly
annoying, not for the loss it occasioned me, but because I should not
have the certainty I now possess of separating myself from all the rest
of mankind at pleasure. Let me now endeavor to make you forget this
temporary unpleasantness, and offer you what no doubt you did not
expect to find hereГўВҖВ”that is to say, a tolerable supper and pretty
comfortable beds.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, my dear sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңmake no apologies. I have
always observed that they bandage peopleГўВҖВҷs eyes who penetrate enchanted
palaces, for instance, those of Raoul in the _Huguenots_, and really I
have nothing to complain of, for what I see makes me think of the
wonders of the _Arabian Nights_.ГўВҖВқ

20079m



ГўВҖВңAlas! I may say with Lucullus, if I could have anticipated the honor
of your visit, I would have prepared for it. But such as is my
hermitage, it is at your disposal; such as is my supper, it is yours to
share, if you will. Ali, is the supper ready?ГўВҖВқ

At this moment the tapestry moved aside, and a Nubian, black as ebony,
and dressed in a plain white tunic, made a sign to his master that all
was prepared in the dining-room.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said the unknown to Franz, ГўВҖВңI do not know if you are of my
opinion, but I think nothing is more annoying than to remain two or
three hours together without knowing by name or appellation how to
address one another. Pray observe, that I too much respect the laws of
hospitality to ask your name or title. I only request you to give me
one by which I may have the pleasure of addressing you. As for myself,
that I may put you at your ease, I tell you that I am generally called
ГўВҖВҳSinbad the Sailor.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңwill tell you, as I only require his wonderful
lamp to make me precisely like Aladdin, that I see no reason why at
this moment I should not be called Aladdin. That will keep us from
going away from the East whither I am tempted to think I have been
conveyed by some good genius.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, Signor Aladdin,ГўВҖВқ replied the singular Amphitryon, ГўВҖВңyou
heard our repast announced, will you now take the trouble to enter the
dining-room, your humble servant going first to show the way?ГўВҖВқ

At these words, moving aside the tapestry, Sinbad preceded his guest.
Franz now looked upon another scene of enchantment; the table was
splendidly covered, and once convinced of this important point he cast
his eyes around him. The dining-room was scarcely less striking than
the room he had just left; it was entirely of marble, with antique
bas-reliefs of priceless value; and at the four corners of this
apartment, which was oblong, were four magnificent statues, having
baskets in their hands. These baskets contained four pyramids of most
splendid fruit; there were Sicily pine-apples, pomegranates from
Malaga, oranges from the Balearic Isles, peaches from France, and dates
from Tunis.

The supper consisted of a roast pheasant garnished with Corsican
blackbirds; a boarГўВҖВҷs ham with jelly, a quarter of a kid with tartar
sauce, a glorious turbot, and a gigantic lobster. Between these large
dishes were smaller ones containing various dainties. The dishes were
of silver, and the plates of Japanese china.

Franz rubbed his eyes in order to assure himself that this was not a
dream. Ali alone was present to wait at table, and acquitted himself so
admirably, that the guest complimented his host thereupon.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied he, while he did the honors of the supper with much ease
and graceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyes, he is a poor devil who is much devoted to me, and does
all he can to prove it. He remembers that I saved his life, and as he
has a regard for his head, he feels some gratitude towards me for
having kept it on his shoulders.ГўВҖВқ

Ali approached his master, took his hand, and kissed it.

ГўВҖВңWould it be impertinent, Signor Sinbad,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңto ask you the
particulars of this kindness?ГўВҖВқ

20081m



ГўВҖВңOh, they are simple enough,ГўВҖВқ replied the host. ГўВҖВңIt seems the fellow
had been caught wandering nearer to the harem of the Bey of Tunis than
etiquette permits to one of his color, and he was condemned by the Bey
to have his tongue cut out, and his hand and head cut off; the tongue
the first day, the hand the second, and the head the third. I always
had a desire to have a mute in my service, so learning the day his
tongue was cut out, I went to the Bey, and proposed to give him for Ali
a splendid double-barreled gun, which I knew he was very desirous of
having. He hesitated a moment, he was so very desirous to complete the
poor devilГўВҖВҷs punishment. But when I added to the gun an English cutlass
with which I had shivered his highnessГўВҖВҷs yataghan to pieces, the Bey
yielded, and agreed to forgive the hand and head, but on condition that
the poor fellow never again set foot in Tunis. This was a useless
clause in the bargain, for whenever the coward sees the first glimpse
of the shores of Africa, he runs down below, and can only be induced to
appear again when we are out of sight of that quarter of the globe.ГўВҖВқ

Franz remained a moment silent and pensive, hardly knowing what to
think of the half-kindness, half-cruelty, with which his host related
the brief narrative.

ГўВҖВңAnd like the celebrated sailor whose name you have assumed,ГўВҖВқ he said,
by way of changing the conversation, ГўВҖВңyou pass your life in
travelling?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. I made a vow at a time when I little thought I should ever be
able to accomplish it,ГўВҖВқ said the unknown with a singular smile; ГўВҖВңand I
made some others also which I hope I may fulfil in due season.ГўВҖВқ

Although Sinbad pronounced these words with much calmness, his eyes
gave forth gleams of extraordinary ferocity.

ГўВҖВңYou have suffered a great deal, sir?ГўВҖВқ said Franz inquiringly.

Sinbad started and looked fixedly at him, as he replied, ГўВҖВңWhat makes
you suppose so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverything,ГўВҖВқ answered Franz,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyour voice, your look, your pallid
complexion, and even the life you lead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВ”I live the happiest life possible, the real life of a pasha. I am
king of all creation. I am pleased with one place, and stay there; I
get tired of it, and leave it; I am free as a bird and have wings like
one; my attendants obey my slightest wish. Sometimes I amuse myself by
delivering some bandit or criminal from the bonds of the law. Then I
have my mode of dispensing justice, silent and sure, without respite or
appeal, which condemns or pardons, and which no one sees. Ah, if you
had tasted my life, you would not desire any other, and would never
return to the world unless you had some great project to accomplish
there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRevenge, for instance!ГўВҖВқ observed Franz.

The unknown fixed on the young man one of those looks which penetrate
into the depth of the heart and thoughts. ГўВҖВңAnd why revenge?ГўВҖВқ he asked.

ГўВҖВңBecause,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңyou seem to me like a man who, persecuted by
society, has a fearful account to settle with it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh!ГўВҖВқ responded Sinbad, laughing with his singular laugh, which
displayed his white and sharp teeth. ГўВҖВңYou have not guessed rightly.
Such as you see me I am, a sort of philosopher, and one day perhaps I
shall go to Paris to rival Monsieur Appert, and the man in the little
blue cloak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd will that be the first time you ever took that journey?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; it will. I must seem to you by no means curious, but I assure you
that it is not my fault I have delayed it so longГўВҖВ”it will happen one
day or the other.ГўВҖВқ

20083m



ГўВҖВңAnd do you propose to make this journey very shortly?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know; it depends on circumstances which depend on certain
arrangements.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should like to be there at the time you come, and I will endeavor to
repay you, as far as lies in my power, for your liberal hospitality
displayed to me at Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should avail myself of your offer with pleasure,ГўВҖВқ replied the host,
ГўВҖВңbut, unfortunately, if I go there, it will be, in all probability,
_incognito_.ГўВҖВқ

The supper appeared to have been supplied solely for Franz, for the
unknown scarcely touched one or two dishes of the splendid banquet to
which his guest did ample justice. Then Ali brought on the dessert, or
rather took the baskets from the hands of the statues and placed them
on the table. Between the two baskets he placed a small silver cup with
a silver cover. The care with which Ali placed this cup on the table
roused FranzГўВҖВҷs curiosity. He raised the cover and saw a kind of
greenish paste, something like preserved angelica, but which was
perfectly unknown to him. He replaced the lid, as ignorant of what the
cup contained as he was before he had looked at it, and then casting
his eyes towards his host he saw him smile at his disappointment.

ГўВҖВңYou cannot guess,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwhat there is in that small vase, can
you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I really cannot.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, that green preserve is nothing less than the ambrosia
which Hebe served at the table of Jupiter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңthis ambrosia, no doubt, in passing through
mortal hands has lost its heavenly appellation and assumed a human
name; in vulgar phrase, what may you term this composition, for which,
to tell the truth, I do not feel any particular desire?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, thus it is that our material origin is revealed,ГўВҖВқ cried Sinbad;
ГўВҖВңwe frequently pass so near to happiness without seeing, without
regarding it, or if we do see and regard it, yet without recognizing
it. Are you a man for the substantials, and is gold your god? taste
this, and the mines of Peru, Guzerat, and Golconda are opened to you.
Are you a man of imaginationГўВҖВ”a poet? taste this, and the boundaries of
possibility disappear; the fields of infinite space open to you, you
advance free in heart, free in mind, into the boundless realms of
unfettered reverie. Are you ambitious, and do you seek after the
greatnesses of the earth? taste this, and in an hour you will be a
king, not a king of a petty kingdom hidden in some corner of Europe
like France, Spain, or England, but king of the world, king of the
universe, king of creation; without bowing at the feet of Satan, you
will be king and master of all the kingdoms of the earth. Is it not
tempting what I offer you, and is it not an easy thing, since it is
only to do thus? look!ГўВҖВқ

At these words he uncovered the small cup which contained the substance
so lauded, took a teaspoonful of the magic sweetmeat, raised it to his
lips, and swallowed it slowly with his eyes half shut and his head bent
backwards. Franz did not disturb him whilst he absorbed his favorite
sweetmeat, but when he had finished, he inquired:

ГўВҖВңWhat, then, is this precious stuff?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you ever hear,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңof the Old Man of the Mountain, who
attempted to assassinate Philippe Auguste?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf course I have.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you know he reigned over a rich valley which was overhung by the
mountain whence he derived his picturesque name. In this valley were
magnificent gardens planted by Hassen-ben-Sabah, and in these gardens
isolated pavilions. Into these pavilions he admitted the elect, and
there, says Marco Polo, gave them to eat a certain herb, which
transported them to Paradise, in the midst of ever-blooming shrubs,
ever-ripe fruit, and ever-lovely virgins. What these happy persons took
for reality was but a dream; but it was a dream so soft, so voluptuous,
so enthralling, that they sold themselves body and soul to him who gave
it to them, and obedient to his orders as to those of a deity, struck
down the designated victim, died in torture without a murmur, believing
that the death they underwent was but a quick transition to that life
of delights of which the holy herb, now before you, had given them a
slight foretaste.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ cried Franz, ГўВҖВңit is hashish! I know thatГўВҖВ”by name at least.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is it precisely, Signor Aladdin; it is hashishГўВҖВ”the purest and
most unadulterated hashish of Alexandria,ГўВҖВ”the hashish of Abou-Gor, the
celebrated maker, the only man, the man to whom there should be built a
palace, inscribed with these words, _A grateful world to the dealer in
happiness_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңI have a very great inclination to judge
for myself of the truth or exaggeration of your eulogies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJudge for yourself, Signor AladdinГўВҖВ”judge, but do not confine yourself
to one trial. Like everything else, we must habituate the senses to a
fresh impression, gentle or violent, sad or joyous. There is a struggle
in nature against this divine substance,ГўВҖВ”in nature which is not made
for joy and clings to pain. Nature subdued must yield in the combat,
the dream must succeed to reality, and then the dream reigns supreme,
then the dream becomes life, and life becomes the dream. But what
changes occur! It is only by comparing the pains of actual being with
the joys of the assumed existence, that you would desire to live no
longer, but to dream thus forever. When you return to this mundane
sphere from your visionary world, you would seem to leave a Neapolitan
spring for a Lapland winterГўВҖВ”to quit paradise for earthГўВҖВ”heaven for hell!
Taste the hashish, guest of mineГўВҖВ”taste the hashish.ГўВҖВқ

FranzГўВҖВҷs only reply was to take a teaspoonful of the marvellous
preparation, about as much in quantity as his host had eaten, and lift
it to his mouth.

ГўВҖВң_Diable!_ГўВҖВқ he said, after having swallowed the divine preserve. ГўВҖВңI do
not know if the result will be as agreeable as you describe, but the
thing does not appear to me as palatable as you say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause your palate his not yet been attuned to the sublimity of the
substances it flavors. Tell me, the first time you tasted oysters, tea,
porter, truffles, and sundry other dainties which you now adore, did
you like them? Could you comprehend how the Romans stuffed their
pheasants with assafГ…В“tida, and the Chinese eat swallowsГўВҖВҷ nests? Eh? no!
Well, it is the same with hashish; only eat for a week, and nothing in
the world will seem to you to equal the delicacy of its flavor, which
now appears to you flat and distasteful. Let us now go into the
adjoining chamber, which is your apartment, and Ali will bring us
coffee and pipes.ГўВҖВқ

They both arose, and while he who called himself SinbadГўВҖВ”and whom we
have occasionally named so, that we might, like his guest, have some
title by which to distinguish himГўВҖВ”gave some orders to the servant,
Franz entered still another apartment.

It was simply yet richly furnished. It was round, and a large divan
completely encircled it. Divan, walls, ceiling, floor, were all covered
with magnificent skins as soft and downy as the richest carpets; there
were heavy-maned lion-skins from Atlas, striped tiger-skins from
Bengal; panther-skins from the Cape, spotted beautifully, like those
that appeared to Dante; bear-skins from Siberia, fox-skins from Norway,
and so on; and all these skins were strewn in profusion one on the
other, so that it seemed like walking over the most mossy turf, or
reclining on the most luxurious bed.

Both laid themselves down on the divan; chibouques with jasmine tubes
and amber mouthpieces were within reach, and all prepared so that there
was no need to smoke the same pipe twice. Each of them took one, which
Ali lighted and then retired to prepare the coffee.

There was a momentГўВҖВҷs silence, during which Sinbad gave himself up to
thoughts that seemed to occupy him incessantly, even in the midst of
his conversation; and Franz abandoned himself to that mute reverie,
into which we always sink when smoking excellent tobacco, which seems
to remove with its fume all the troubles of the mind, and to give the
smoker in exchange all the visions of the soul. Ali brought in the
coffee.

ГўВҖВңHow do you take it?ГўВҖВқ inquired the unknown; ГўВҖВңin the French or Turkish
style, strong or weak, sugar or none, cool or boiling? As you please;
it is ready in all ways.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will take it in the Turkish style,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz.

ГўВҖВңAnd you are right,ГўВҖВқ said his host; ГўВҖВңit shows you have a tendency for
an Oriental life. Ah, those Orientals; they are the only men who know
how to live. As for me,ГўВҖВқ he added, with one of those singular smiles
which did not escape the young man, ГўВҖВңwhen I have completed my affairs
in Paris, I shall go and die in the East; and should you wish to see me
again, you must seek me at Cairo, Bagdad, or Ispahan.ГўВҖВқ

20087m



ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңit would be the easiest thing in the world;
for I feel eagleГўВҖВҷs wings springing out at my shoulders, and with those
wings I could make a tour of the world in four-and-twenty hours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes, the hashish is beginning its work. Well, unfurl your wings,
and fly into superhuman regions; fear nothing, there is a watch over
you; and if your wings, like those of Icarus, melt before the sun, we
are here to ease your fall.ГўВҖВқ

He then said something in Arabic to Ali, who made a sign of obedience
and withdrew, but not to any distance.

As to Franz a strange transformation had taken place in him. All the
bodily fatigue of the day, all the preoccupation of mind which the
events of the evening had brought on, disappeared as they do at the
first approach of sleep, when we are still sufficiently conscious to be
aware of the coming of slumber. His body seemed to acquire an airy
lightness, his perception brightened in a remarkable manner, his senses
seemed to redouble their power, the horizon continued to expand; but it
was not the gloomy horizon of vague alarms, and which he had seen
before he slept, but a blue, transparent, unbounded horizon, with all
the blue of the ocean, all the spangles of the sun, all the perfumes of
the summer breeze; then, in the midst of the songs of his
sailors,ГўВҖВ”songs so clear and sonorous, that they would have made a
divine harmony had their notes been taken down,ГўВҖВ”he saw the Island of
Monte Cristo, no longer as a threatening rock in the midst of the
waves, but as an oasis in the desert; then, as his boat drew nearer,
the songs became louder, for an enchanting and mysterious harmony rose
to heaven, as if some Loreley had decreed to attract a soul thither, or
Amphion, the enchanter, intended there to build a city.

At length the boat touched the shore, but without effort, without
shock, as lips touch lips; and he entered the grotto amidst continued
strains of most delicious melody. He descended, or rather seemed to
descend, several steps, inhaling the fresh and balmy air, like that
which may be supposed to reign around the grotto of Circe, formed from
such perfumes as set the mind a-dreaming, and such fires as burn the
very senses; and he saw again all he had seen before his sleep, from
Sinbad, his singular host, to Ali, the mute attendant; then all seemed
to fade away and become confused before his eyes, like the last shadows
of the magic lantern before it is extinguished, and he was again in the
chamber of statues, lighted only by one of those pale and antique lamps
which watch in the dead of the night over the sleep of pleasure.

They were the same statues, rich in form, in attraction, and poesy,
with eyes of fascination, smiles of love, and bright and flowing hair.
They were Phryne, Cleopatra, Messalina, those three celebrated
courtesans. Then among them glided like a pure ray, like a Christian
angel in the midst of Olympus, one of those chaste figures, those calm
shadows, those soft visions, which seemed to veil its virgin brow
before these marble wantons.

Then the three statues advanced towards him with looks of love, and
approached the couch on which he was reposing, their feet hidden in
their long white tunics, their throats bare, hair flowing like waves,
and assuming attitudes which the gods could not resist, but which
saints withstood, and looks inflexible and ardent like those with which
the serpent charms the bird; and then he gave way before looks that
held him in a torturing grasp and delighted his senses as with a
voluptuous kiss.

It seemed to Franz that he closed his eyes, and in a last look about
him saw the vision of modesty completely veiled; and then followed a
dream of passion like that promised by the Prophet to the elect. Lips
of stone turned to flame, breasts of ice became like heated lava, so
that to Franz, yielding for the first time to the sway of the drug,
love was a sorrow and voluptuousness a torture, as burning mouths were
pressed to his thirsty lips, and he was held in cool serpent-like
embraces. The more he strove against this unhallowed passion the more
his senses yielded to its thrall, and at length, weary of a struggle
that taxed his very soul, he gave way and sank back breathless and
exhausted beneath the kisses of these marble goddesses, and the
enchantment of his marvellous dream.



 Chapter 32. The Waking

When Franz returned to himself, he seemed still to be in a dream. He
thought himself in a sepulchre, into which a ray of sunlight in pity
scarcely penetrated. He stretched forth his hand, and touched stone; he
rose to his seat, and found himself lying on his bournous in a bed of
dry heather, very soft and odoriferous. The vision had fled; and as if
the statues had been but shadows from the tomb, they had vanished at
his waking.

He advanced several paces towards the point whence the light came, and
to all the excitement of his dream succeeded the calmness of reality.
He found that he was in a grotto, went towards the opening, and through
a kind of fanlight saw a blue sea and an azure sky. The air and water
were shining in the beams of the morning sun; on the shore the sailors
were sitting, chatting and laughing; and at ten yards from them the
boat was at anchor, undulating gracefully on the water.

There for some time he enjoyed the fresh breeze which played on his
brow, and listened to the dash of the waves on the beach, that left
against the rocks a lace of foam as white as silver. He was for some
time without reflection or thought for the divine charm which is in the
things of nature, specially after a fantastic dream; then gradually
this view of the outer world, so calm, so pure, so grand, reminded him
of the illusiveness of his vision, and once more awakened memory. He
recalled his arrival on the island, his presentation to a smuggler
chief, a subterranean palace full of splendor, an excellent supper, and
a spoonful of hashish.

It seemed, however, even in the very face of open day, that at least a
year had elapsed since all these things had passed, so deep was the
impression made in his mind by the dream, and so strong a hold had it
taken of his imagination. Thus every now and then he saw in fancy amid
the sailors, seated on a rock, or undulating in the vessel, one of the
shadows which had shared his dream with looks and kisses. Otherwise,
his head was perfectly clear, and his body refreshed; he was free from
the slightest headache; on the contrary, he felt a certain degree of
lightness, a faculty for absorbing the pure air, and enjoying the
bright sunshine more vividly than ever.

He went gayly up to the sailors, who rose as soon as they perceived
him; and the patron, accosting him, said:

ГўВҖВңThe Signor Sinbad has left his compliments for your excellency, and
desires us to express the regret he feels at not being able to take his
leave in person; but he trusts you will excuse him, as very important
business calls him to Malaga.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo, then, Gaetano,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңthis is, then, all reality; there
exists a man who has received me in this island, entertained me right
royally, and has departed while I was asleep?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe exists as certainly as that you may see his small yacht with all
her sails spread; and if you will use your glass, you will, in all
probability, recognize your host in the midst of his crew.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, Gaetano pointed in a direction in which a small vessel was
making sail towards the southern point of Corsica. Franz adjusted his
telescope, and directed it towards the yacht. Gaetano was not mistaken.
At the stern the mysterious stranger was standing up looking towards
the shore, and holding a spy-glass in his hand. He was attired as he
had been on the previous evening, and waved his pocket-handkerchief to
his guest in token of adieu. Franz returned the salute by shaking his
handkerchief as an exchange of signals. After a second, a slight cloud
of smoke was seen at the stern of the vessel, which rose gracefully as
it expanded in the air, and then Franz heard a slight report.

ГўВҖВңThere, do you hear?ГўВҖВқ observed Gaetano; ГўВҖВңhe is bidding you adieu.ГўВҖВқ

The young man took his carbine and fired it in the air, but without any
idea that the noise could be heard at the distance which separated the
yacht from the shore.

ГўВҖВңWhat are your excellencyГўВҖВҷs orders?ГўВҖВқ inquired Gaetano.

ГўВҖВңIn the first place, light me a torch.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes, I understand,ГўВҖВқ replied the patron, ГўВҖВңto find the entrance to
the enchanted apartment. With much pleasure, your excellency, if it
would amuse you; and I will get you the torch you ask for. But I too
have had the idea you have, and two or three times the same fancy has
come over me; but I have always given it up. Giovanni, light a torch,ГўВҖВқ
he added, ГўВҖВңand give it to his excellency.ГўВҖВқ

Giovanni obeyed. Franz took the lamp, and entered the subterranean
grotto, followed by Gaetano. He recognized the place where he had
awaked by the bed of heather that was there; but it was in vain that he
carried his torch all round the exterior surface of the grotto. He saw
nothing, unless that, by traces of smoke, others had before him
attempted the same thing, and, like him, in vain. Yet he did not leave
a foot of this granite wall, as impenetrable as futurity, without
strict scrutiny; he did not see a fissure without introducing the blade
of his hunting sword into it, or a projecting point on which he did not
lean and press in the hopes it would give way. All was vain; and he
lost two hours in his attempts, which were at last utterly useless. At
the end of this time he gave up his search, and Gaetano smiled.

When Franz appeared again on the shore, the yacht only seemed like a
small white speck on the horizon. He looked again through his glass,
but even then he could not distinguish anything.

Gaetano reminded him that he had come for the purpose of shooting
goats, which he had utterly forgotten. He took his fowling-piece, and
began to hunt over the island with the air of a man who is fulfilling a
duty, rather than enjoying a pleasure; and at the end of a quarter of
an hour he had killed a goat and two kids. These animals, though wild
and agile as chamois, were too much like domestic goats, and Franz
could not consider them as game. Moreover, other ideas, much more
enthralling, occupied his mind. Since, the evening before, he had
really been the hero of one of the tales of the _Thousand and One
Nights_, and he was irresistibly attracted towards the grotto.

Then, in spite of the failure of his first search, he began a second,
after having told Gaetano to roast one of the two kids. The second
visit was a long one, and when he returned the kid was roasted and the
repast ready. Franz was sitting on the spot where he was on the
previous evening when his mysterious host had invited him to supper;
and he saw the little yacht, now like a sea-gull on the wave,
continuing her flight towards Corsica.

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ he remarked to Gaetano, ГўВҖВңyou told me that Signor Sinbad was
going to Malaga, while it seems he is in the direction of
Porto-Vecchio.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt you remember,ГўВҖВқ said the patron, ГўВҖВңI told you that among the crew
there were two Corsican brigands?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue; and he is going to land them,ГўВҖВқ added Franz.

ГўВҖВңPrecisely so,ГўВҖВқ replied Gaetano. ГўВҖВңAh, he is one who fears neither God
nor Satan, they say, and would at any time run fifty leagues out of his
course to do a poor devil a service.ГўВҖВқ

20093m



ГўВҖВңBut such services as these might involve him with the authorities of
the country in which he practices this kind of philanthropy,ГўВҖВқ said
Franz.

ГўВҖВңAnd what cares he for that,ГўВҖВқ replied Gaetano with a laugh, ГўВҖВңor any
authorities? He smiles at them. Let them try to pursue him! Why, in the
first place, his yacht is not a ship, but a bird, and he would beat any
frigate three knots in every nine; and if he were to throw himself on
the coast, why, is he not certain of finding friends everywhere?ГўВҖВқ

It was perfectly clear that the Signor Sinbad, FranzГўВҖВҷs host, had the
honor of being on excellent terms with the smugglers and bandits along
the whole coast of the Mediterranean, and so enjoyed exceptional
privileges. As to Franz, he had no longer any inducement to remain at
Monte Cristo. He had lost all hope of detecting the secret of the
grotto; he consequently despatched his breakfast, and, his boat being
ready, he hastened on board, and they were soon under way. At the
moment the boat began her course they lost sight of the yacht, as it
disappeared in the gulf of Porto-Vecchio. With it was effaced the last
trace of the preceding night; and then supper, Sinbad, hashish,
statues,ГўВҖВ”all became a dream for Franz.

The boat sailed on all day and all night, and next morning, when the
sun rose, they had lost sight of Monte Cristo.

When Franz had once again set foot on shore, he forgot, for the moment
at least, the events which had just passed, while he finished his
affairs of pleasure at Florence, and then thought of nothing but how he
should rejoin his companion, who was awaiting him at Rome.

He set out, and on the Saturday evening reached the Place de la Douane
by the mail-coach. An apartment, as we have said, had been retained
beforehand, and thus he had but to go to Signor PastriniГўВҖВҷs hotel. But
this was not so easy a matter, for the streets were thronged with
people, and Rome was already a prey to that low and feverish murmur
which precedes all great events; and at Rome there are four great
events in every year,ГўВҖВ”the Carnival, Holy Week, Corpus Christi, and the
Feast of St. Peter.

All the rest of the year the city is in that state of dull apathy,
between life and death, which renders it similar to a kind of station
between this world and the nextГўВҖВ”a sublime spot, a resting-place full of
poetry and character, and at which Franz had already halted five or six
times, and at each time found it more marvellous and striking.

At last he made his way through the mob, which was continually
increasing and getting more and more turbulent, and reached the hotel.
On his first inquiry he was told, with the impertinence peculiar to
hired hackney-coachmen and innkeepers with their houses full, that
there was no room for him at the HГғВҙtel de Londres. Then he sent his
card to Signor Pastrini, and asked for Albert de Morcerf. This plan
succeeded; and Signor Pastrini himself ran to him, excusing himself for
having made his excellency wait, scolding the waiters, taking the
candlestick from the porter, who was ready to pounce on the traveller
and was about to lead him to Albert, when Morcerf himself appeared.

The apartment consisted of two small rooms and a parlor. The two rooms
looked on to the streetГўВҖВ”a fact which Signor Pastrini commented upon as
an inappreciable advantage. The rest of the floor was hired by a very
rich gentleman who was supposed to be a Sicilian or Maltese; but the
host was unable to decide to which of the two nations the traveller
belonged.

ГўВҖВңVery good, signor Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ said Franz; ГўВҖВңbut we must have some supper
instantly, and a carriage for tomorrow and the following days.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs to supper,ГўВҖВқ replied the landlord, ГўВҖВңyou shall be served immediately;
but as for the carriageГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat as to the carriage?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert. ГўВҖВңCome, come, Signor
Pastrini, no joking; we must have a carriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied the host, ГўВҖВңwe will do all in our power to procure you
oneГўВҖВ”this is all I can say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd when shall we know?ГўВҖВқ inquired Franz.

ГўВҖВңTomorrow morning,ГўВҖВқ answered the innkeeper.

ГўВҖВңOh, the deuce! then we shall pay the more, thatГўВҖВҷs all, I see plainly
enough. At DrakeГўВҖВҷs or AaronГўВҖВҷs one pays twenty-five lire for common
days, and thirty or thirty-five lire a day more for Sundays and feast
days; add five lire a day more for extras, that will make forty, and
thereГўВҖВҷs an end of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am afraid if we offer them double that we shall not procure a
carriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen they must put horses to mine. It is a little worse for the
journey, but thatГўВҖВҷs no matter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere are no horses.ГўВҖВқ

Albert looked at Franz like a man who hears a reply he does not
understand.

ГўВҖВңDo you understand that, my dear FranzГўВҖВ”no horses?ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңbut canГўВҖВҷt
we have post-horses?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey have been all hired this fortnight, and there are none left but
those absolutely requisite for posting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat are we to say to this?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz.

ГўВҖВңI say, that when a thing completely surpasses my comprehension, I am
accustomed not to dwell on that thing, but to pass to another. Is
supper ready, Signor Pastrini?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, let us sup.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the carriage and horses?ГўВҖВқ said Franz.

ГўВҖВңBe easy, my dear boy; they will come in due season; it is only a
question of how much shall be charged for them.ГўВҖВқ Morcerf then, with
that delighted philosophy which believes that nothing is impossible to
a full purse or well-lined pocketbook, supped, went to bed, slept
soundly, and dreamed he was racing all over Rome at Carnival time in a
coach with six horses.



 Chapter 33. Roman Bandits

The next morning Franz woke first, and instantly rang the bell. The
sound had not yet died away when Signor Pastrini himself entered.

ГўВҖВңWell, excellency,ГўВҖВқ said the landlord triumphantly, and without waiting
for Franz to question him, ГўВҖВңI feared yesterday, when I would not
promise you anything, that you were too lateГўВҖВ”there is not a single
carriage to be hadГўВҖВ”that is, for the three last daysГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, ГўВҖВңfor the very three days it is most needed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ said Albert, entering; ГўВҖВңno carriage to be had?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust so,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, ГўВҖВңyou have guessed it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, your Eternal City is a nice sort of place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is to say, excellency,ГўВҖВқ replied Pastrini, who was desirous of
keeping up the dignity of the capital of the Christian world in the
eyes of his guest, ГўВҖВңthat there are no carriages to be had from Sunday
to Tuesday evening, but from now till Sunday you can have fifty if you
please.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is something,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңtoday is Thursday, and who knows
what may arrive between this and Sunday?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTen or twelve thousand travellers will arrive,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңwhich
will make it still more difficult.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңlet us enjoy the present without gloomy
forebodings for the future.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least we can have a window?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the Corso.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, a window!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Signor Pastrini,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңutterly impossible; there
was only one left on the fifth floor of the Doria Palace, and that has
been let to a Russian prince for twenty sequins a day.ГўВҖВқ

The two young men looked at each other with an air of stupefaction.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Franz to Albert, ГўВҖВңdo you know what is the best thing we
can do? It is to pass the Carnival at Venice; there we are sure of
obtaining gondolas if we cannot have carriages.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, the devil, no,ГўВҖВқ cried Albert; ГўВҖВңI came to Rome to see the Carnival,
and I will, though I see it on stilts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBravo! an excellent idea. We will disguise ourselves as monster
pulchinellos or shepherds of the Landes, and we shall have complete
success.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo your excellencies still wish for a carriage from now to Sunday
morning?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Parbleu!_ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңdo you think we are going to run about on
foot in the streets of Rome, like lawyersГўВҖВҷ clerks?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hasten to comply with your excellenciesГўВҖВҷ wishes; only, I tell you
beforehand, the carriage will cost you six piastres a day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd, as I am not a millionaire, like the gentleman in the next
apartments,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңI warn you, that as I have been four times
before at Rome, I know the prices of all the carriages; we will give
you twelve piastres for today, tomorrow, and the day after, and then
you will make a good profit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, excellencyГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”said Pastrini, still striving to gain his point.

ГўВҖВңNow go,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, ГўВҖВңor I shall go myself and bargain with your
_affettatore_, who is mine also; he is an old friend of mine, who has
plundered me pretty well already, and, in the hope of making more out
of me, he will take a less price than the one I offer you; you will
lose the preference, and that will be your fault.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not give yourselves the trouble, excellency,ГўВҖВқ returned Signor
Pastrini, with the smile peculiar to the Italian speculator when he
confesses defeat; ГўВҖВңI will do all I can, and I hope you will be
satisfied.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd now we understand each other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen do you wish the carriage to be here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn an hour.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn an hour it will be at the door.ГўВҖВқ

An hour after the vehicle was at the door; it was a hack conveyance
which was elevated to the rank of a private carriage in honor of the
occasion, but, in spite of its humble exterior, the young men would
have thought themselves happy to have secured it for the last three
days of the Carnival.

ГўВҖВңExcellency,ГўВҖВқ cried the _cicerone_, seeing Franz approach the window,
ГўВҖВңshall I bring the carriage nearer to the palace?ГўВҖВқ

Accustomed as Franz was to the Italian phraseology, his first impulse
was to look round him, but these words were addressed to him. Franz was
the ГўВҖВңexcellency,ГўВҖВқ the vehicle was the ГўВҖВңcarriage,ГўВҖВқ and the HГғВҙtel de
Londres was the ГўВҖВңpalace.ГўВҖВқ The genius for laudation characteristic of
the race was in that phrase.

Franz and Albert descended, the carriage approached the palace; their
excellencies stretched their legs along the seats; the _cicerone_
sprang into the seat behind.

ГўВҖВңWhere do your excellencies wish to go?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңTo Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs first, and then to the Colosseum,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert.
But Albert did not know that it takes a day to see Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs, and a
month to study it. The day was passed at Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs alone.

Suddenly the daylight began to fade away; Franz took out his watchГўВҖВ”it
was half-past four. They returned to the hotel; at the door Franz
ordered the coachman to be ready at eight. He wished to show Albert the
Colosseum by moonlight, as he had shown him Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs by daylight.
When we show a friend a city one has already visited, we feel the same
pride as when we point out a woman whose lover we have been.

He was to leave the city by the Porta del Popolo, skirt the outer wall,
and re-enter by the Porta San Giovanni; thus they would behold the
Colosseum without finding their impressions dulled by first looking on
the Capitol, the Forum, the Arch of Septimus Severus, the Temple of
Antoninus and Faustina, and the Via Sacra.

They sat down to dinner. Signor Pastrini had promised them a banquet;
he gave them a tolerable repast. At the end of the dinner he entered in
person. Franz thought that he came to hear his dinner praised, and
began accordingly, but at the first words he was interrupted.

ГўВҖВңExcellency,ГўВҖВқ said Pastrini, ГўВҖВңI am delighted to have your approbation,
but it was not for that I came.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you come to tell us you have procured a carriage?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert,
lighting his cigar.

ГўВҖВңNo; and your excellencies will do well not to think of that any
longer; at Rome things can or cannot be done; when you are told
anything cannot be done, there is an end of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is much more convenient at Paris,ГўВҖВ”when anything cannot be done, you
pay double, and it is done directly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is what all the French say,ГўВҖВқ returned Signor Pastrini, somewhat
piqued; ГўВҖВңfor that reason, I do not understand why they travel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, emitting a volume of smoke and balancing his chair
on its hind legs, ГўВҖВңonly madmen, or blockheads like us, ever do travel.
Men in their senses do not quit their hotel in the Rue du Helder, their
walk on the Boulevard de Gand, and the CafГғВ© de Paris.ГўВҖВқ

It is of course understood that Albert resided in the aforesaid street,
appeared every day on the fashionable walk, and dined frequently at the
only restaurant where you can really dine, that is, if you are on good
terms with its waiters.

Signor Pastrini remained silent a short time; it was evident that he
was musing over this answer, which did not seem very clear.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, in his turn interrupting his hostГўВҖВҷs meditations,
ГўВҖВңyou had some motive for coming here, may I beg to know what it was?ГўВҖВқ

20099m



ГўВҖВңAh, yes; you have ordered your carriage at eight oГўВҖВҷclock precisely?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou intend visiting _Il Colosseo_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou mean the Colosseum?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is the same thing. You have told your coachman to leave the city by
the Porta del Popolo, to drive round the walls, and re-enter by the
Porta San Giovanni?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThese are my words exactly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, this route is impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpossible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery dangerous, to say the least.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDangerous!ГўВҖВ”and why?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn account of the famous Luigi Vampa.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray, who may this famous Luigi Vampa be?ГўВҖВқ inquired Albert; ГўВҖВңhe may be
very famous at Rome, but I can assure you he is quite unknown at
Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat! do you not know him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have not that honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have never heard his name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, he is a bandit, compared to whom the Decesaris and the
Gasparones were mere children.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow then, Albert,ГўВҖВқ cried Franz, ГўВҖВңhere is a bandit for you at last.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI forewarn you, Signor Pastrini, that I shall not believe one word of
what you are going to tell us; having told you this, begin. ГўВҖВҳOnce upon
a timeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷ Well, go on.ГўВҖВқ

Signor Pastrini turned toward Franz, who seemed to him the more
reasonable of the two; we must do him justice,ГўВҖВ”he had had a great many
Frenchmen in his house, but had never been able to comprehend them.

ГўВҖВңExcellency,ГўВҖВқ said he gravely, addressing Franz, ГўВҖВңif you look upon me
as a liar, it is useless for me to say anything; it was for your
interest IГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlbert does not say you are a liar, Signor Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңbut
that he will not believe what you are going to tell us,ГўВҖВ”but I will
believe all you say; so proceed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut if your excellency doubt my veracityГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSignor Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, ГўВҖВңyou are more susceptible than
Cassandra, who was a prophetess, and yet no one believed her; while
you, at least, are sure of the credence of half your audience. Come,
sit down, and tell us all about this Signor Vampa.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI had told your excellency he is the most famous bandit we have had
since the days of Mastrilla.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what has this bandit to do with the order I have given the
coachman to leave the city by the Porta del Popolo, and to re-enter by
the Porta San Giovanni?ГўВҖВқ

20101m



ГўВҖВңThis,ГўВҖВқ replied Signor Pastrini, ГўВҖВңthat you will go out by one, but I
very much doubt your returning by the other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz.

ГўВҖВңBecause, after nightfall, you are not safe fifty yards from the
gates.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn your honor, is that true?ГўВҖВқ cried Albert.

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ returned Signor Pastrini, hurt at AlbertГўВҖВҷs repeated doubts of
the truth of his assertions, ГўВҖВңI do not say this to you, but to your
companion, who knows Rome, and knows, too, that these things are not to
be laughed at.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, turning to Franz, ГўВҖВңhere is an admirable
adventure; we will fill our carriage with pistols, blunderbusses, and
double-barrelled guns. Luigi Vampa comes to take us, and we take himГўВҖВ”we
bring him back to Rome, and present him to his holiness the Pope, who
asks how he can repay so great a service; then we merely ask for a
carriage and a pair of horses, and we see the Carnival in the carriage,
and doubtless the Roman people will crown us at the Capitol, and
proclaim us, like Curtius and Horatius Cocles, the preservers of their
country.ГўВҖВқ

Whilst Albert proposed this scheme, Signor PastriniГўВҖВҷs face assumed an
expression impossible to describe.

ГўВҖВңAnd pray,ГўВҖВқ asked Franz, ГўВҖВңwhere are these pistols, blunderbusses, and
other deadly weapons with which you intend filling the carriage?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot out of my armory, for at Terracina I was plundered even of my
hunting-knife. And you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shared the same fate at Aquapendente.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know, Signor Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, lighting a second cigar at
the first, ГўВҖВңthat this practice is very convenient for bandits, and that
it seems to be due to an arrangement of their own.ГўВҖВқ

Doubtless Signor Pastrini found this pleasantry compromising, for he
only answered half the question, and then he spoke to Franz, as the
only one likely to listen with attention. ГўВҖВңYour excellency knows that
it is not customary to defend yourself when attacked by bandits.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat!ГўВҖВқ cried Albert, whose courage revolted at the idea of being
plundered tamely, ГўВҖВңnot make any resistance!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, for it would be useless. What could you do against a dozen bandits
who spring out of some pit, ruin, or aqueduct, and level their pieces
at you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEh, _parbleu!_ГўВҖВ”they should kill me.ГўВҖВқ

The innkeeper turned to Franz with an air that seemed to say, ГўВҖВңYour
friend is decidedly mad.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, ГўВҖВңyour answer is sublime, and worthy
the ГўВҖВҳ_Let him die_,ГўВҖВҷ of Corneille, only, when Horace made that answer,
the safety of Rome was concerned; but, as for us, it is only to gratify
a whim, and it would be ridiculous to risk our lives for so foolish a
motive.ГўВҖВқ

Albert poured himself out a glass of _lacryma Christi_, which he sipped
at intervals, muttering some unintelligible words.

ГўВҖВңWell, Signor Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңnow that my companion is quieted,
and you have seen how peaceful my intentions are, tell me who is this
Luigi Vampa. Is he a shepherd or a nobleman?ГўВҖВ”young or old?ГўВҖВ”tall or
short? Describe him, in order that, if we meet him by chance, like Jean
Sbogar or Lara, we may recognize him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou could not apply to anyone better able to inform you on all these
points, for I knew him when he was a child, and one day that I fell
into his hands, going from Ferentino to Alatri, he, fortunately for me,
recollected me, and set me free, not only without ransom, but made me a
present of a very splendid watch, and related his history to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us see the watch,ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

Signor Pastrini drew from his fob a magnificent BrГғВ©guet, bearing the
name of its maker, of Parisian manufacture, and a countГўВҖВҷs coronet.

ГўВҖВңHere it is,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВң_Peste!_ГўВҖВқ returned Albert, ГўВҖВңI compliment you on it; I have its
fellowГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”he took his watch from his waistcoat pocketГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңand it cost me
3,000 francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us hear the history,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, motioning Signor Pastrini to
seat himself.

ГўВҖВңYour excellencies permit it?ГўВҖВқ asked the host.

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu!_ГўВҖВқ cried Albert, ГўВҖВңyou are not a preacher, to remain
standing!ГўВҖВқ

The host sat down, after having made each of them a respectful bow,
which meant that he was ready to tell them all they wished to know
concerning Luigi Vampa.

ГўВҖВңYou tell me,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, at the moment Signor Pastrini was about to
open his mouth, ГўВҖВңthat you knew Luigi Vampa when he was a childГўВҖВ”he is
still a young man, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA young man? he is only two-and-twenty;ГўВҖВ”he will gain himself a
reputation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you think of that, Albert?ГўВҖВ”at two-and-twenty to be thus
famous?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and at his age, Alexander, CГғВҰsar, and Napoleon, who have all made
some noise in the world, were quite behind him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo,ГўВҖВқ continued Franz, ГўВҖВңthe hero of this history is only
two-and-twenty?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңScarcely so much.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs he tall or short?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf the middle heightГўВҖВ”about the same stature as his excellency,ГўВҖВқ
returned the host, pointing to Albert.

ГўВҖВңThanks for the comparison,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, with a bow.

ГўВҖВңGo on, Signor Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ continued Franz, smiling at his friendГўВҖВҷs
susceptibility. ГўВҖВңTo what class of society does he belong?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe was a shepherd-boy attached to the farm of the Count of San-Felice,
situated between Palestrina and the Lake of Gabri; he was born at
Pampinara, and entered the countГўВҖВҷs service when he was five years old;
his father was also a shepherd, who owned a small flock, and lived by
the wool and the milk, which he sold at Rome. When quite a child, the
little Vampa displayed a most extraordinary precocity. One day, when he
was seven years old, he came to the curate of Palestrina, and asked to
be taught to read; it was somewhat difficult, for he could not quit his
flock; but the good curate went every day to say mass at a little
hamlet too poor to pay a priest and which, having no other name, was
called Borgo; he told Luigi that he might meet him on his return, and
that then he would give him a lesson, warning him that it would be
short, and that he must profit as much as possible by it. The child
accepted joyfully. Every day Luigi led his flock to graze on the road
that leads from Palestrina to Borgo; every day, at nine oГўВҖВҷclock in the
morning, the priest and the boy sat down on a bank by the wayside, and
the little shepherd took his lesson out of the priestГўВҖВҷs breviary. At
the end of three months he had learned to read. This was not enoughГўВҖВ”he
must now learn to write. The priest had a writing teacher at Rome make
three alphabetsГўВҖВ”one large, one middling, and one small; and pointed out
to him that by the help of a sharp instrument he could trace the
letters on a slate, and thus learn to write. The same evening, when the
flock was safe at the farm, the little Luigi hastened to the smith at
Palestrina, took a large nail, heated and sharpened it, and formed a
sort of stylus. The next morning he gathered an armful of pieces of
slate and began. At the end of three months he had learned to write.
The curate, astonished at his quickness and intelligence, made him a
present of pens, paper, and a penknife. This demanded new effort, but
nothing compared to the first; at the end of a week he wrote as well
with this pen as with the stylus. The curate related the incident to
the Count of San-Felice, who sent for the little shepherd, made him
read and write before him, ordered his attendant to let him eat with
the domestics, and to give him two piastres a month. With this, Luigi
purchased books and pencils. He applied his imitative powers to
everything, and, like Giotto, when young, he drew on his slate sheep,
houses, and trees. Then, with his knife, he began to carve all sorts of
objects in wood; it was thus that Pinelli, the famous sculptor, had
commenced.

20105m



ГўВҖВңA girl of six or sevenГўВҖВ”that is, a little younger than VampaГўВҖВ”tended
sheep on a farm near Palestrina; she was an orphan, born at Valmontone
and was named Teresa. The two children met, sat down near each other,
let their flocks mingle together, played, laughed, and conversed
together; in the evening they separated the Count of San-FeliceГўВҖВҷs flock
from those of Baron Cervetri, and the children returned to their
respective farms, promising to meet the next morning. The next day they
kept their word, and thus they grew up together. Vampa was twelve, and
Teresa eleven. And yet their natural disposition revealed itself.
Beside his taste for the fine arts, which Luigi had carried as far as
he could in his solitude, he was given to alternating fits of sadness
and enthusiasm, was often angry and capricious, and always sarcastic.
None of the lads of Pampinara, Palestrina, or Valmontone had been able
to gain any influence over him or even to become his companion. His
disposition (always inclined to exact concessions rather than to make
them) kept him aloof from all friendships. Teresa alone ruled by a
look, a word, a gesture, this impetuous character, which yielded
beneath the hand of a woman, and which beneath the hand of a man might
have broken, but could never have been bended. Teresa was lively and
gay, but coquettish to excess. The two piastres that Luigi received
every month from the Count of San-FeliceГўВҖВҷs steward, and the price of
all the little carvings in wood he sold at Rome, were expended in
ear-rings, necklaces, and gold hairpins. So that, thanks to her
friendГўВҖВҷs generosity, Teresa was the most beautiful and the best-attired
peasant near Rome.

ГўВҖВңThe two children grew up together, passing all their time with each
other, and giving themselves up to the wild ideas of their different
characters. Thus, in all their dreams, their wishes, and their
conversations, Vampa saw himself the captain of a vessel, general of an
army, or governor of a province. Teresa saw herself rich, superbly
attired, and attended by a train of liveried domestics. Then, when they
had thus passed the day in building castles in the air, they separated
their flocks, and descended from the elevation of their dreams to the
reality of their humble position.

ГўВҖВңOne day the young shepherd told the countГўВҖВҷs steward that he had seen a
wolf come out of the Sabine mountains, and prowl around his flock. The
steward gave him a gun; this was what Vampa longed for. This gun had an
excellent barrel, made at Brescia, and carrying a ball with the
precision of an English rifle; but one day the count broke the stock,
and had then cast the gun aside. This, however, was nothing to a
sculptor like Vampa; he examined the broken stock, calculated what
change it would require to adapt the gun to his shoulder, and made a
fresh stock, so beautifully carved that it would have fetched fifteen
or twenty piastres, had he chosen to sell it. But nothing could be
farther from his thoughts.

ГўВҖВңFor a long time a gun had been the young manГўВҖВҷs greatest ambition. In
every country where independence has taken the place of liberty, the
first desire of a manly heart is to possess a weapon, which at once
renders him capable of defence or attack, and, by rendering its owner
terrible, often makes him feared. From this moment Vampa devoted all
his leisure time to perfecting himself in the use of his precious
weapon; he purchased powder and ball, and everything served him for a
markГўВҖВ”the trunk of some old and moss-grown olive-tree, that grew on the
Sabine mountains; the fox, as he quitted his earth on some marauding
excursion; the eagle that soared above their heads: and thus he soon
became so expert, that Teresa overcame the terror she at first felt at
the report, and amused herself by watching him direct the ball wherever
he pleased, with as much accuracy as if he placed it by hand.

20107m



ГўВҖВңOne evening a wolf emerged from a pine-wood near which they were
usually stationed, but the wolf had scarcely advanced ten yards ere he
was dead. Proud of this exploit, Vampa took the dead animal on his
shoulders, and carried him to the farm. These exploits had gained Luigi
considerable reputation. The man of superior abilities always finds
admirers, go where he will. He was spoken of as the most adroit, the
strongest, and the most courageous _contadino_ for ten leagues around;
and although Teresa was universally allowed to be the most beautiful
girl of the Sabines, no one had ever spoken to her of love, because it
was known that she was beloved by Vampa. And yet the two young people
had never declared their affection; they had grown together like two
trees whose roots are mingled, whose branches intertwined, and whose
intermingled perfume rises to the heavens. Only their wish to see each
other had become a necessity, and they would have preferred death to a
dayГўВҖВҷs separation.

ГўВҖВңTeresa was sixteen, and Vampa seventeen. About this time, a band of
brigands that had established itself in the Lepini mountains began to
be much spoken of. The brigands have never been really extirpated from
the neighborhood of Rome. Sometimes a chief is wanted, but when a chief
presents himself he rarely has to wait long for a band of followers.

ГўВҖВңThe celebrated Cucumetto, pursued in the Abruzzo, driven out of the
kingdom of Naples, where he had carried on a regular war, had crossed
the Garigliano, like Manfred, and had taken refuge on the banks of the
Amasine between Sonnino and Juperno. He strove to collect a band of
followers, and followed the footsteps of Decesaris and Gasparone, whom
he hoped to surpass. Many young men of Palestrina, Frascati, and
Pampinara had disappeared. Their disappearance at first caused much
disquietude; but it was soon known that they had joined Cucumetto.
After some time Cucumetto became the object of universal attention; the
most extraordinary traits of ferocious daring and brutality were
related of him.

ГўВҖВңOne day he carried off a young girl, the daughter of a surveyor of
Frosinone. The banditГўВҖВҷs laws are positive; a young girl belongs first
to him who carries her off, then the rest draw lots for her, and she is
abandoned to their brutality until death relieves her sufferings. When
their parents are sufficiently rich to pay a ransom, a messenger is
sent to negotiate; the prisoner is hostage for the security of the
messenger; should the ransom be refused, the prisoner is irrevocably
lost. The young girlГўВҖВҷs lover was in CucumettoГўВҖВҷs troop; his name was
Carlini. When she recognized her lover, the poor girl extended her arms
to him, and believed herself safe; but Carlini felt his heart sink, for
he but too well knew the fate that awaited her. However, as he was a
favorite with Cucumetto, as he had for three years faithfully served
him, and as he had saved his life by shooting a dragoon who was about
to cut him down, he hoped the chief would have pity on him. He took
Cucumetto one side, while the young girl, seated at the foot of a huge
pine that stood in the centre of the forest, made a veil of her
picturesque head-dress to hide her face from the lascivious gaze of the
bandits. There he told the chief allГўВҖВ”his affection for the prisoner,
their promises of mutual fidelity, and how every night, since he had
been near, they had met in some neighboring ruins.

20109m



ГўВҖВңIt so happened that night that Cucumetto had sent Carlini to a
village, so that he had been unable to go to the place of meeting.
Cucumetto had been there, however, by accident, as he said, and had
carried the maiden off. Carlini besought his chief to make an exception
in RitaГўВҖВҷs favor, as her father was rich, and could pay a large ransom.
Cucumetto seemed to yield to his friendГўВҖВҷs entreaties, and bade him find
a shepherd to send to RitaГўВҖВҷs father at Frosinone.

ГўВҖВңCarlini flew joyfully to Rita, telling her she was saved, and bidding
her write to her father, to inform him what had occurred, and that her
ransom was fixed at three hundred piastres. Twelve hoursГўВҖВҷ delay was all
that was grantedГўВҖВ”that is, until nine the next morning. The instant the
letter was written, Carlini seized it, and hastened to the plain to
find a messenger. He found a young shepherd watching his flock. The
natural messengers of the bandits are the shepherds who live between
the city and the mountains, between civilized and savage life. The boy
undertook the commission, promising to be in Frosinone in less than an
hour. Carlini returned, anxious to see his mistress, and announce the
joyful intelligence. He found the troop in the glade, supping off the
provisions exacted as contributions from the peasants; but his eye
vainly sought Rita and Cucumetto among them.

ГўВҖВңHe inquired where they were, and was answered by a burst of laughter.
A cold perspiration burst from every pore, and his hair stood on end.
He repeated his question. One of the bandits rose, and offered him a
glass filled with Orvietto, saying, ГўВҖВҳTo the health of the brave
Cucumetto and the fair Rita.ГўВҖВҷ At this moment Carlini heard a womanГўВҖВҷs
cry; he divined the truth, seized the glass, broke it across the face
of him who presented it, and rushed towards the spot whence the cry
came. After a hundred yards he turned the corner of the thicket; he
found Rita senseless in the arms of Cucumetto. At the sight of Carlini,
Cucumetto rose, a pistol in each hand. The two brigands looked at each
other for a momentГўВҖВ”the one with a smile of lasciviousness on his lips,
the other with the pallor of death on his brow. A terrible battle
between the two men seemed imminent; but by degrees CarliniГўВҖВҷs features
relaxed, his hand, which had grasped one of the pistols in his belt,
fell to his side. Rita lay between them. The moon lighted the group.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell,ГўВҖВҷ said Cucumetto, ГўВҖВҳhave you executed your commission?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes, captain,ГўВҖВҷ returned Carlini. ГўВҖВҳAt nine oГўВҖВҷclock tomorrow RitaГўВҖВҷs
father will be here with the money.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIt is well; in the meantime, we will have a merry night; this young
girl is charming, and does credit to your taste. Now, as I am not
egotistical, we will return to our comrades and draw lots for her.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYou have determined, then, to abandon her to the common law?ГўВҖВҷ said
Carlini.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhy should an exception be made in her favor?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI thought that my entreatiesГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat right have you, any more than the rest, to ask for an
exception?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIt is true.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBut never mind,ГўВҖВҷ continued Cucumetto, laughing, ГўВҖВҳsooner or later your
turn will come.ГўВҖВҷ CarliniГўВҖВҷs teeth clenched convulsively.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNow, then,ГўВҖВҷ said Cucumetto, advancing towards the other bandits, ГўВҖВҳare
you coming?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI follow you.ГўВҖВҷ

20111m



ГўВҖВңCucumetto departed, without losing sight of Carlini, for, doubtless,
he feared lest he should strike him unawares; but nothing betrayed a
hostile design on CarliniГўВҖВҷs part. He was standing, his arms folded,
near Rita, who was still insensible. Cucumetto fancied for a moment the
young man was about to take her in his arms and fly; but this mattered
little to him now Rita had been his; and as for the money, three
hundred piastres distributed among the band was so small a sum that he
cared little about it. He continued to follow the path to the glade;
but, to his great surprise, Carlini arrived almost as soon as himself.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳLet us draw lots! let us draw lots!ГўВҖВҷ cried all the brigands, when
they saw the chief.

ГўВҖВңTheir demand was fair, and the chief inclined his head in sign of
acquiescence. The eyes of all shone fiercely as they made their demand,
and the red light of the fire made them look like demons. The names of
all, including Carlini, were placed in a hat, and the youngest of the
band drew forth a ticket; the ticket bore the name of Diavolaccio. He
was the man who had proposed to Carlini the health of their chief, and
to whom Carlini replied by breaking the glass across his face. A large
wound, extending from the temple to the mouth, was bleeding profusely.
Diavolaccio, seeing himself thus favored by fortune, burst into a loud
laugh.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳCaptain,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳjust now Carlini would not drink your health when
I proposed it to him; propose mine to him, and let us see if he will be
more condescending to you than to me.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңEveryone expected an explosion on CarliniГўВҖВҷs part; but to their great
surprise, he took a glass in one hand and a flask in the other, and
filling it,ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYour health, Diavolaccio,ГўВҖВҷ said he calmly, and he drank it off,
without his hand trembling in the least. Then sitting down by the fire,
ГўВҖВҳMy supper,ГўВҖВҷ said he; ГўВҖВҳmy expedition has given me an appetite.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell done, Carlini!ГўВҖВҷ cried the brigands; ГўВҖВҳthat is acting like a good
fellow;ГўВҖВҷ and they all formed a circle round the fire, while Diavolaccio
disappeared.

ГўВҖВңCarlini ate and drank as if nothing had happened. The bandits looked
on with astonishment at this singular conduct until they heard
footsteps. They turned round, and saw Diavolaccio bearing the young
girl in his arms. Her head hung back, and her long hair swept the
ground. As they entered the circle, the bandits could perceive, by the
firelight, the unearthly pallor of the young girl and of Diavolaccio.
This apparition was so strange and so solemn, that everyone rose, with
the exception of Carlini, who remained seated, and ate and drank
calmly. Diavolaccio advanced amidst the most profound silence, and laid
Rita at the captainГўВҖВҷs feet. Then everyone could understand the cause of
the unearthly pallor in the young girl and the bandit. A knife was
plunged up to the hilt in RitaГўВҖВҷs left breast. Everyone looked at
Carlini; the sheath at his belt was empty.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAh, ah,ГўВҖВҷ said the chief, ГўВҖВҳI now understand why Carlini stayed
behind.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңAll savage natures appreciate a desperate deed. No other of the
bandits would, perhaps, have done the same; but they all understood
what Carlini had done.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNow, then,ГўВҖВҷ cried Carlini, rising in his turn, and approaching the
corpse, his hand on the butt of one of his pistols, ГўВҖВҳdoes anyone
dispute the possession of this woman with me?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNo,ГўВҖВҷ returned the chief, ГўВҖВҳshe is thine.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңCarlini raised her in his arms, and carried her out of the circle of
firelight. Cucumetto placed his sentinels for the night, and the
bandits wrapped themselves in their cloaks, and lay down before the
fire. At midnight the sentinel gave the alarm, and in an instant all
were on the alert. It was RitaГўВҖВҷs father, who brought his daughterГўВҖВҷs
ransom in person.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHere,ГўВҖВҷ said he, to Cucumetto, ГўВҖВҳhere are three hundred piastres; give
me back my child.

ГўВҖВңBut the chief, without taking the money, made a sign to him to follow.
The old man obeyed. They both advanced beneath the trees, through whose
branches streamed the moonlight. Cucumetto stopped at last, and pointed
to two persons grouped at the foot of a tree.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThere,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳdemand thy child of Carlini; he will tell thee what
has become of her;ГўВҖВҷ and he returned to his companions.

ГўВҖВңThe old man remained motionless; he felt that some great and
unforeseen misfortune hung over his head. At length he advanced toward
the group, the meaning of which he could not comprehend. As he
approached, Carlini raised his head, and the forms of two persons
became visible to the old manГўВҖВҷs eyes. A woman lay on the ground, her
head resting on the knees of a man, who was seated by her; as he raised
his head, the womanГўВҖВҷs face became visible. The old man recognized his
child, and Carlini recognized the old man.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI expected thee,ГўВҖВҷ said the bandit to RitaГўВҖВҷs father.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWretch!ГўВҖВҷ returned the old man, ГўВҖВҳwhat hast thou done?ГўВҖВҷ and he gazed
with terror on Rita, pale and bloody, a knife buried in her bosom. A
ray of moonlight poured through the trees, and lighted up the face of
the dead.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳCucumetto had violated thy daughter,ГўВҖВҷ said the bandit; ГўВҖВҳI loved her,
therefore I slew her; for she would have served as the sport of the
whole band.ГўВҖВҷ The old man spoke not, and grew pale as death. ГўВҖВҳNow,ГўВҖВҷ
continued Carlini, ГўВҖВҳif I have done wrongly, avenge her;ГўВҖВҷ and
withdrawing the knife from the wound in RitaГўВҖВҷs bosom, he held it out to
the old man with one hand, while with the other he tore open his vest.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThou hast done well!ГўВҖВҷ returned the old man in a hoarse voice;
ГўВҖВҳembrace me, my son.ГўВҖВҷ

20115m



Carlini threw himself, sobbing like a child, into the arms of his
mistressГўВҖВҷs father. These were the first tears the man of blood had ever
wept.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNow,ГўВҖВҷ said the old man, ГўВҖВҳaid me to bury my child.ГўВҖВҷ Carlini fetched
two pickaxes; and the father and the lover began to dig at the foot of
a huge oak, beneath which the young girl was to repose. When the grave
was formed, the father embraced her first, and then the lover;
afterwards, one taking the head, the other the feet, they placed her in
the grave. Then they knelt on each side of the grave, and said the
prayers of the dead. Then, when they had finished, they cast the earth
over the corpse, until the grave was filled. Then, extending his hand,
the old man said; ГўВҖВҳI thank you, my son; and now leave me alone.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYetГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷ replied Carlini.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳLeave me, I command you.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңCarlini obeyed, rejoined his comrades, folded himself in his cloak,
and soon appeared to sleep as soundly as the rest. It had been resolved
the night before to change their encampment. An hour before daybreak,
Cucumetto aroused his men, and gave the word to march. But Carlini
would not quit the forest, without knowing what had become of RitaГўВҖВҷs
father. He went toward the place where he had left him. He found the
old man suspended from one of the branches of the oak which shaded his
daughterГўВҖВҷs grave. He then took an oath of bitter vengeance over the
dead body of the one and the tomb of the other. But he was unable to
complete this oath, for two days afterwards, in an encounter with the
Roman carbineers, Carlini was killed. There was some surprise, however,
that, as he was with his face to the enemy, he should have received a
ball between his shoulders. That astonishment ceased when one of the
brigands remarked to his comrades that Cucumetto was stationed ten
paces in CarliniГўВҖВҷs rear when he fell. On the morning of the departure
from the forest of Frosinone he had followed Carlini in the darkness,
and heard this oath of vengeance, and, like a wise man, anticipated it.

ГўВҖВңThey told ten other stories of this bandit chief, each more singular
than the other. Thus, from Fondi to Perusia, everyone trembles at the
name of Cucumetto.

ГўВҖВңThese narratives were frequently the theme of conversation between
Luigi and Teresa. The young girl trembled very much at hearing the
stories; but Vampa reassured her with a smile, tapping the butt of his
good fowling-piece, which threw its ball so well; and if that did not
restore her courage, he pointed to a crow, perched on some dead branch,
took aim, touched the trigger, and the bird fell dead at the foot of
the tree. Time passed on, and the two young people had agreed to be
married when Vampa should be twenty and Teresa nineteen years of age.
They were both orphans, and had only their employersГўВҖВҷ leave to ask,
which had been already sought and obtained. One day when they were
talking over their plans for the future, they heard two or three
reports of firearms, and then suddenly a man came out of the wood, near
which the two young persons used to graze their flocks, and hurried
towards them. When he came within hearing, he exclaimed:

ГўВҖВҳI am pursued; can you conceal me?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThey knew full well that this fugitive must be a bandit; but there is
an innate sympathy between the Roman brigand and the Roman peasant and
the latter is always ready to aid the former. Vampa, without saying a
word, hastened to the stone that closed up the entrance to their
grotto, drew it away, made a sign to the fugitive to take refuge there,
in a retreat unknown to everyone, closed the stone upon him, and then
went and resumed his seat by Teresa. Instantly afterwards four
carbineers, on horseback, appeared on the edge of the wood; three of
them appeared to be looking for the fugitive, while the fourth dragged
a brigand prisoner by the neck. The three carbineers looked about
carefully on every side, saw the young peasants, and galloping up,
began to question them. They had seen no one.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThat is very annoying,ГўВҖВҷ said the brigadier; for the man we are
looking for is the chief.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳCucumetto?ГўВҖВҷ cried Luigi and Teresa at the same moment.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ replied the brigadier; ГўВҖВҳand as his head is valued at a thousand
Roman crowns, there would have been five hundred for you, if you had
helped us to catch him.ГўВҖВҷ The two young persons exchanged looks. The
brigadier had a momentГўВҖВҷs hope. Five hundred Roman crowns are three
thousand lire, and three thousand lire are a fortune for two poor
orphans who are going to be married.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes, it is very annoying,ГўВҖВҷ said Vampa; ГўВҖВҳbut we have not seen him.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThen the carbineers scoured the country in different directions, but
in vain; then, after a time, they disappeared. Vampa then removed the
stone, and Cucumetto came out. Through the crevices in the granite he
had seen the two young peasants talking with the carbineers, and
guessed the subject of their parley. He had read in the countenances of
Luigi and Teresa their steadfast resolution not to surrender him, and
he drew from his pocket a purse full of gold, which he offered to them.
But Vampa raised his head proudly; as to Teresa, her eyes sparkled when
she thought of all the fine gowns and gay jewellery she could buy with
this purse of gold.

ГўВҖВңCucumetto was a cunning fiend, and had assumed the form of a brigand
instead of a serpent, and this look from Teresa showed to him that she
was a worthy daughter of Eve, and he returned to the forest, pausing
several times on his way, under the pretext of saluting his protectors.

ГўВҖВңSeveral days elapsed, and they neither saw nor heard of Cucumetto. The
time of the Carnival was at hand. The Count of San-Felice announced a
grand masked ball, to which all that were distinguished in Rome were
invited. Teresa had a great desire to see this ball. Luigi asked
permission of his protector, the steward, that she and he might be
present amongst the servants of the house. This was granted. The ball
was given by the Count for the particular pleasure of his daughter
Carmela, whom he adored. Carmela was precisely the age and figure of
Teresa, and Teresa was as handsome as Carmela. On the evening of the
ball Teresa was attired in her best, her most brilliant ornaments in
her hair, and gayest glass beads,ГўВҖВ”she was in the costume of the women
of Frascati. Luigi wore the very picturesque garb of the Roman peasant
at holiday time. They both mingled, as they had leave to do, with the
servants and peasants.

ГўВҖВңThe _festa_ was magnificent; not only was the villa brilliantly
illuminated, but thousands of colored lanterns were suspended from the
trees in the garden; and very soon the palace overflowed to the
terraces, and the terraces to the garden-walks. At each cross-path was
an orchestra, and tables spread with refreshments; the guests stopped,
formed quadrilles, and danced in any part of the grounds they pleased.
Carmela was attired like a woman of Sonnino. Her cap was embroidered
with pearls, the pins in her hair were of gold and diamonds, her girdle
was of Turkey silk, with large embroidered flowers, her bodice and
skirt were of cashmere, her apron of Indian muslin, and the buttons of
her corset were of jewels. Two of her companions were dressed, the one
as a woman of Nettuno, and the other as a woman of La Riccia. Four
young men of the richest and noblest families of Rome accompanied them
with that Italian freedom which has not its parallel in any other
country in the world. They were attired as peasants of Albano,
Velletri, Civita-Castellana, and Sora. We need hardly add that these
peasant costumes, like those of the young women, were brilliant with
gold and jewels.

ГўВҖВңCarmela wished to form a quadrille, but there was one lady wanting.
Carmela looked all around her, but not one of the guests had a costume
similar to her own, or those of her companions. The Count of San-Felice
pointed out Teresa, who was hanging on LuigiГўВҖВҷs arm in a group of
peasants.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWill you allow me, father?ГўВҖВҷ said Carmela.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳCertainly,ГўВҖВҷ replied the count, ГўВҖВҳare we not in Carnival time?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңCarmela turned towards the young man who was talking with her, and
saying a few words to him, pointed with her finger to Teresa. The young
man looked, bowed in obedience, and then went to Teresa, and invited
her to dance in a quadrille directed by the countГўВҖВҷs daughter. Teresa
felt a flush pass over her face; she looked at Luigi, who could not
refuse his assent. Luigi slowly relinquished TeresaГўВҖВҷs arm, which he had
held beneath his own, and Teresa, accompanied by her elegant cavalier,
took her appointed place with much agitation in the aristocratic
quadrille. Certainly, in the eyes of an artist, the exact and strict
costume of Teresa had a very different character from that of Carmela
and her companions; and Teresa was frivolous and coquettish, and thus
the embroidery and muslins, the cashmere waist-girdles, all dazzled
her, and the reflection of sapphires and diamonds almost turned her
giddy brain.

ГўВҖВңLuigi felt a sensation hitherto unknown arising in his mind. It was
like an acute pain which gnawed at his heart, and then thrilled through
his whole body. He followed with his eye each movement of Teresa and
her cavalier; when their hands touched, he felt as though he should
swoon; every pulse beat with violence, and it seemed as though a bell
were ringing in his ears. When they spoke, although Teresa listened
timidly and with downcast eyes to the conversation of her cavalier, as
Luigi could read in the ardent looks of the good-looking young man that
his language was that of praise, it seemed as if the whole world was
turning round with him, and all the voices of hell were whispering in
his ears ideas of murder and assassination. Then fearing that his
paroxysm might get the better of him, he clutched with one hand the
branch of a tree against which he was leaning, and with the other
convulsively grasped the dagger with a carved handle which was in his
belt, and which, unwittingly, he drew from the scabbard from time to
time.

ГўВҖВңLuigi was jealous!

ГўВҖВңHe felt that, influenced by her ambitions and coquettish disposition,
Teresa might escape him.

ГўВҖВңThe young peasant girl, at first timid and scared, soon recovered
herself. We have said that Teresa was handsome, but this is not all;
Teresa was endowed with all those wild graces which are so much more
potent than our affected and studied elegancies. She had almost all the
honors of the quadrille, and if she were envious of the Count of
San-FeliceГўВҖВҷs daughter, we will not undertake to say that Carmela was
not jealous of her. And with overpowering compliments her handsome
cavalier led her back to the place whence he had taken her, and where
Luigi awaited her. Twice or thrice during the dance the young girl had
glanced at Luigi, and each time she saw that he was pale and that his
features were agitated, once even the blade of his knife, half drawn
from its sheath, had dazzled her eyes with its sinister glare. Thus, it
was almost tremblingly that she resumed her loverГўВҖВҷs arm. The quadrille
had been most perfect, and it was evident there was a great demand for
a repetition, Carmela alone objecting to it, but the Count of
San-Felice besought his daughter so earnestly, that she acceded.

ГўВҖВңOne of the cavaliers then hastened to invite Teresa, without whom it
was impossible for the quadrille to be formed, but the young girl had
disappeared.

ГўВҖВңThe truth was, that Luigi had not felt the strength to support another
such trial, and, half by persuasion and half by force, he had removed
Teresa toward another part of the garden. Teresa had yielded in spite
of herself, but when she looked at the agitated countenance of the
young man, she understood by his silence and trembling voice that
something strange was passing within him. She herself was not exempt
from internal emotion, and without having done anything wrong, yet
fully comprehended that Luigi was right in reproaching her. Why, she
did not know, but yet she did not the less feel that these reproaches
were merited.

ГўВҖВңHowever, to TeresaГўВҖВҷs great astonishment, Luigi remained mute, and not
a word escaped his lips the rest of the evening. When the chill of the
night had driven away the guests from the gardens, and the gates of the
villa were closed on them for the _festa_ in-doors, he took Teresa
quite away, and as he left her at her home, he said:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTeresa, what were you thinking of as you danced opposite the young
Countess of San-Felice?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI thought,ГўВҖВҷ replied the young girl, with all the frankness of her
nature, ГўВҖВҳthat I would give half my life for a costume such as she
wore.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd what said your cavalier to you?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHe said it only depended on myself to have it, and I had only one
word to say.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHe was right,ГўВҖВҷ said Luigi. ГўВҖВҳDo you desire it as ardently as you say?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell, then, you shall have it!ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe young girl, much astonished, raised her head to look at him, but
his face was so gloomy and terrible that her words froze to her lips.
As Luigi spoke thus, he left her. Teresa followed him with her eyes
into the darkness as long as she could, and when he had quite
disappeared, she went into the house with a sigh.

20121m



ГўВҖВңThat night a memorable event occurred, due, no doubt, to the
imprudence of some servant who had neglected to extinguish the lights.
The Villa of San-Felice took fire in the rooms adjoining the very
apartment of the lovely Carmela. Awakened in the night by the light of
the flames, she sprang out of bed, wrapped herself in a dressing-gown,
and attempted to escape by the door, but the corridor by which she
hoped to fly was already a prey to the flames. She then returned to her
room, calling for help as loudly as she could, when suddenly her
window, which was twenty feet from the ground, was opened, a young
peasant jumped into the chamber, seized her in his arms, and with
superhuman skill and strength conveyed her to the turf of the
grass-plot, where she fainted. When she recovered, her father was by
her side. All the servants surrounded her, offering her assistance. An
entire wing of the villa was burnt down; but what of that, as long as
Carmela was safe and uninjured?

ГўВҖВңHer preserver was everywhere sought for, but he did not appear; he was
inquired after, but no one had seen him. Carmela was greatly troubled
that she had not recognized him.

ГўВҖВңAs the count was immensely rich, excepting the danger Carmela had
run,ГўВҖВ”and the marvellous manner in which she had escaped, made that
appear to him rather a favor of Providence than a real misfortune,ГўВҖВ”the
loss occasioned by the conflagration was to him but a trifle.

ГўВҖВңThe next day, at the usual hour, the two young peasants were on the
borders of the forest. Luigi arrived first. He came toward Teresa in
high spirits, and seemed to have completely forgotten the events of the
previous evening. The young girl was very pensive, but seeing Luigi so
cheerful, she on her part assumed a smiling air, which was natural to
her when she was not excited or in a passion.

ГўВҖВңLuigi took her arm beneath his own, and led her to the door of the
grotto. Then he paused. The young girl, perceiving that there was
something extraordinary, looked at him steadfastly.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTeresa,ГўВҖВҷ said Luigi, ГўВҖВҳyesterday evening you told me you would give
all the world to have a costume similar to that of the countГўВҖВҷs
daughter.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ replied Teresa with astonishment; ГўВҖВҳbut I was mad to utter such
a wish.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd I replied, ГўВҖВңVery well, you shall have it.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ replied the young girl, whose astonishment increased at every
word uttered by Luigi, ГўВҖВҳbut of course your reply was only to please
me.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI have promised no more than I have given you, Teresa,ГўВҖВҷ said Luigi
proudly. ГўВҖВҳGo into the grotto and dress yourself.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңAt these words he drew away the stone, and showed Teresa the grotto,
lighted up by two wax lights, which burnt on each side of a splendid
mirror; on a rustic table, made by Luigi, were spread out the pearl
necklace and the diamond pins, and on a chair at the side was laid the
rest of the costume.

ГўВҖВңTeresa uttered a cry of joy, and, without inquiring whence this attire
came, or even thanking Luigi, darted into the grotto, transformed into
a dressing-room.

ГўВҖВңLuigi pushed the stone behind her, for on the crest of a small
adjacent hill which cut off the view toward Palestrina, he saw a
traveller on horseback, stopping a moment, as if uncertain of his road,
and thus presenting against the blue sky that perfect outline which is
peculiar to distant objects in southern climes. When he saw Luigi, he
put his horse into a gallop and advanced toward him.

ГўВҖВңLuigi was not mistaken. The traveller, who was going from Palestrina
to Tivoli, had mistaken his way; the young man directed him; but as at
a distance of a quarter of a mile the road again divided into three
ways, and on reaching these the traveller might again stray from his
route, he begged Luigi to be his guide.

ГўВҖВңLuigi threw his cloak on the ground, placed his carbine on his
shoulder, and freed from his heavy covering, preceded the traveller
with the rapid step of a mountaineer, which a horse can scarcely keep
up with. In ten minutes Luigi and the traveller reached the
cross-roads. On arriving there, with an air as majestic as that of an
emperor, he stretched his hand towards that one of the roads which the
traveller was to follow.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThat is your road, excellency, and now you cannot again mistake.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd here is your recompense,ГўВҖВҷ said the traveller, offering the young
herdsman some small pieces of money.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThank you,ГўВҖВҷ said Luigi, drawing back his hand; ГўВҖВҳI render a service, I
do not sell it.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell,ГўВҖВҷ replied the traveller, who seemed used to this difference
between the servility of a man of the cities and the pride of the
mountaineer, ГўВҖВҳif you refuse wages, you will, perhaps, accept a gift.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAh, yes, that is another thing.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThen,ГўВҖВҷ said the traveller, ГўВҖВҳtake these two Venetian sequins and give
them to your bride, to make herself a pair of earrings.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd then do you take this poniard,ГўВҖВҷ said the young herdsman; ГўВҖВҳyou
will not find one better carved between Albano and Civita-Castellana.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI accept it,ГўВҖВҷ answered the traveller, ГўВҖВҳbut then the obligation will
be on my side, for this poniard is worth more than two sequins.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳFor a dealer perhaps; but for me, who engraved it myself, it is
hardly worth a piastre.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat is your name?ГўВҖВҷ inquired the traveller.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳLuigi Vampa,ГўВҖВҷ replied the shepherd, with the same air as he would
have replied, Alexander, King of Macedon. ГўВҖВҳAnd yours?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI,ГўВҖВҷ said the traveller, ГўВҖВҳam called Sinbad the Sailor.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay started with surprise.

ГўВҖВңSinbad the Sailor?ГўВҖВқ he said.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the narrator; ГўВҖВңthat was the name which the traveller
gave to Vampa as his own.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, and what may you have to say against this name?ГўВҖВқ inquired
Albert; ГўВҖВңit is a very pretty name, and the adventures of the gentleman
of that name amused me very much in my youth, I must confess.ГўВҖВқ

Franz said no more. The name of Sinbad the Sailor, as may well be
supposed, awakened in him a world of recollections, as had the name of
the Count of Monte Cristo on the previous evening.

ГўВҖВңProceed!ГўВҖВқ said he to the host.

ГўВҖВңVampa put the two sequins haughtily into his pocket, and slowly
returned by the way he had gone. As he came within two or three hundred
paces of the grotto, he thought he heard a cry. He listened to know
whence this sound could proceed. A moment afterwards he thought he
heard his own name pronounced distinctly.

ГўВҖВңThe cry proceeded from the grotto. He bounded like a chamois, cocking
his carbine as he went, and in a moment reached the summit of a hill
opposite to that on which he had perceived the traveller. Three cries
for help came more distinctly to his ear. He cast his eyes around him
and saw a man carrying off Teresa, as Nessus, the centaur, carried
Deianira.

ГўВҖВңThis man, who was hastening towards the wood, was already
three-quarters of the way on the road from the grotto to the forest.
Vampa measured the distance; the man was at least two hundred paces in
advance of him, and there was not a chance of overtaking him. The young
shepherd stopped, as if his feet had been rooted to the ground; then he
put the butt of his carbine to his shoulder, took aim at the ravisher,
followed him for a second in his track, and then fired.

ГўВҖВңThe ravisher stopped suddenly, his knees bent under him, and he fell
with Teresa in his arms. The young girl rose instantly, but the man lay
on the earth struggling in the agonies of death. Vampa then rushed
towards Teresa; for at ten paces from the dying man her legs had failed
her, and she had dropped on her knees, so that the young man feared
that the ball that had brought down his enemy, had also wounded his
betrothed.

ГўВҖВңFortunately, she was unscathed, and it was fright alone that had
overcome Teresa. When Luigi had assured himself that she was safe and
unharmed, he turned towards the wounded man. He had just expired, with
clenched hands, his mouth in a spasm of agony, and his hair on end in
the sweat of death. His eyes remained open and menacing. Vampa
approached the corpse, and recognized Cucumetto.

ГўВҖВңFrom the day on which the bandit had been saved by the two young
peasants, he had been enamoured of Teresa, and had sworn she should be
his. From that time he had watched them, and profiting by the moment
when her lover had left her alone, had carried her off, and believed he
at length had her in his power, when the ball, directed by the unerring
skill of the young herdsman, had pierced his heart. Vampa gazed on him
for a moment without betraying the slightest emotion; while, on the
contrary, Teresa, shuddering in every limb, dared not approach the
slain ruffian but by degrees, and threw a hesitating glance at the dead
body over the shoulder of her lover. Suddenly Vampa turned toward his
mistress:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAh,ГўВҖВҷ said heГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳgood, good! You are dressed; it is now my turn to dress
myself.ГўВҖВҷ

20125m



ГўВҖВңTeresa was clothed from head to foot in the garb of the Count of
San-FeliceГўВҖВҷs daughter. Vampa took CucumettoГўВҖВҷs body in his arms and
conveyed it to the grotto, while in her turn Teresa remained outside.
If a second traveller had passed, he would have seen a strange thing,ГўВҖВ”a
shepherdess watching her flock, clad in a cashmere grown, with
ear-rings and necklace of pearls, diamond pins, and buttons of
sapphires, emeralds, and rubies. He would, no doubt, have believed that
he had returned to the times of Florian, and would have declared, on
reaching Paris, that he had met an Alpine shepherdess seated at the
foot of the Sabine Hill.

ГўВҖВңAt the end of a quarter of an hour Vampa quitted the grotto; his
costume was no less elegant than that of Teresa. He wore a vest of
garnet-colored velvet, with buttons of cut gold; a silk waistcoat
covered with embroidery; a Roman scarf tied round his neck; a
cartridge-box worked with gold, and red and green silk; sky-blue velvet
breeches, fastened above the knee with diamond buckles; garters of
deerskin, worked with a thousand arabesques, and a hat whereon hung
ribbons of all colors; two watches hung from his girdle, and a splendid
poniard was in his belt.

ГўВҖВңTeresa uttered a cry of admiration. Vampa in this attire resembled a
painting by LГғВ©opold Robert or Schnetz. He had assumed the entire
costume of Cucumetto. The young man saw the effect produced on his
betrothed, and a smile of pride passed over his lips.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNow,ГўВҖВҷ he said to Teresa, ГўВҖВҳare you ready to share my fortune, whatever
it may be?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOh, yes!ГўВҖВҷ exclaimed the young girl enthusiastically.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd follow me wherever I go?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTo the worldГўВҖВҷs end.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThen take my arm, and let us on; we have no time to lose.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe young girl did so without questioning her lover as to where he was
conducting her, for he appeared to her at this moment as handsome,
proud, and powerful as a god. They went towards the forest, and soon
entered it.

ГўВҖВңWe need scarcely say that all the paths of the mountain were known to
Vampa; he therefore went forward without a momentГўВҖВҷs hesitation,
although there was no beaten track, but he knew his path by looking at
the trees and bushes, and thus they kept on advancing for nearly an
hour and a half. At the end of this time they had reached the thickest
part of the forest. A torrent, whose bed was dry, led into a deep
gorge. Vampa took this wild road, which, enclosed between two ridges,
and shadowed by the tufted umbrage of the pines, seemed, but for the
difficulties of its descent, that path to Avernus of which Virgil
speaks. Teresa had become alarmed at the wild and deserted look of the
plain around her, and pressed closely against her guide, not uttering a
syllable; but as she saw him advance with even step and composed
countenance, she endeavored to repress her emotion.

ГўВҖВңSuddenly, about ten paces from them, a man advanced from behind a tree
and aimed at Vampa.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNot another step,ГўВҖВҷ he said, ГўВҖВҳor you are a dead man.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat, then,ГўВҖВҷ said Vampa, raising his hand with a gesture of disdain,
while Teresa, no longer able to restrain her alarm, clung closely to
him, ГўВҖВҳdo wolves rend each other?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWho are you?ГўВҖВҷ inquired the sentinel.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI am Luigi Vampa, shepherd of the San-Felice farm.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat do you want?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI would speak with your companions who are in the glade at Rocca
Bianca.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳFollow me, then,ГўВҖВҷ said the sentinel; ГўВҖВҳor, as you know your way, go
first.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңVampa smiled disdainfully at this precaution on the part of the
bandit, went before Teresa, and continued to advance with the same firm
and easy step as before. At the end of ten minutes the bandit made them
a sign to stop. The two young persons obeyed. Then the bandit thrice
imitated the cry of a crow; a croak answered this signal.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳGood!ГўВҖВҷ said the sentry, ГўВҖВҳyou may now go on.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңLuigi and Teresa again set forward; as they went on Teresa clung
tremblingly to her lover at the sight of weapons and the glistening of
carbines through the trees. The retreat of Rocca Bianca was at the top
of a small mountain, which no doubt in former days had been a
volcanoГўВҖВ”an extinct volcano before the days when Remus and Romulus had
deserted Alba to come and found the city of Rome.

ГўВҖВңTeresa and Luigi reached the summit, and all at once found themselves
in the presence of twenty bandits.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHere is a young man who seeks and wishes to speak to you,ГўВҖВҷ said the
sentinel.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat has he to say?ГўВҖВҷ inquired the young man who was in command in the
chiefГўВҖВҷs absence.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI wish to say that I am tired of a shepherdГўВҖВҷs life,ГўВҖВҷ was VampaГўВҖВҷs
reply.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAh, I understand,ГўВҖВҷ said the lieutenant; ГўВҖВҳand you seek admittance into
our ranks?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWelcome!ГўВҖВҷ cried several bandits from Ferrusino, Pampinara, and
Anagni, who had recognized Luigi Vampa.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes, but I came to ask something more than to be your companion.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd what may that be?ГўВҖВҷ inquired the bandits with astonishment.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI come to ask to be your captain,ГўВҖВҷ said the young man.

ГўВҖВңThe bandits shouted with laughter.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd what have you done to aspire to this honor?ГўВҖВҷ demanded the
lieutenant.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI have killed your chief, Cucumetto, whose dress I now wear; and I
set fire to the villa San-Felice to procure a wedding-dress for my
betrothed.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңAn hour afterwards Luigi Vampa was chosen captain, vice Cucumetto,
deceased.ГўВҖВқ

20129m



ГўВҖВңWell, my dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, turning towards his friend; ГўВҖВңwhat
think you of citizen Luigi Vampa?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI say he is a myth,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңand never had an existence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what may a myth be?ГўВҖВқ inquired Pastrini.

ГўВҖВңThe explanation would be too long, my dear landlord,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz.

ГўВҖВңAnd you say that Signor Vampa exercises his profession at this moment
in the environs of Rome?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd with a boldness of which no bandit before him ever gave an
example.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen the police have vainly tried to lay hands on him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you see, he has a good understanding with the shepherds in the
plains, the fishermen of the Tiber, and the smugglers of the coast.
They seek for him in the mountains, and he is on the waters; they
follow him on the waters, and he is on the open sea; then they pursue
him, and he has suddenly taken refuge in the islands, at Giglio,
Giannutri, or Monte Cristo; and when they hunt for him there, he
reappears suddenly at Albano, Tivoli, or La Riccia.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how does he behave towards travellers?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas! his plan is very simple. It depends on the distance he may be
from the city, whether he gives eight hours, twelve hours, or a day
wherein to pay their ransom; and when that time has elapsed he allows
another hourГўВҖВҷs grace. At the sixtieth minute of this hour, if the money
is not forthcoming, he blows out the prisonerГўВҖВҷs brains with a
pistol-shot, or plants his dagger in his heart, and that settles the
account.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, Albert,ГўВҖВқ inquired Franz of his companion, ГўВҖВңare you still
disposed to go to the Colosseum by the outer wall?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңQuite so,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңif the way be picturesque.ГўВҖВқ

The clock struck nine as the door opened, and a coachman appeared.

ГўВҖВңExcellencies,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthe coach is ready.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңlet us to the Colosseum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the Porta del Popolo or by the streets, your excellencies?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the streets, _morbleu!_ by the streets!ГўВҖВқ cried Franz.

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, rising, and lighting his third
cigar, ГўВҖВңreally, I thought you had more courage.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, the two young men went down the staircase, and got into the
carriage.

20131m




 Chapter 34. The Colosseum

Franz had so managed his route, that during the ride to the Colosseum
they passed not a single ancient ruin, so that no preliminary
impression interfered to mitigate the colossal proportions of the
gigantic building they came to admire. The road selected was a
continuation of the Via Sistina; then by cutting off the right angle of
the street in which stands Santa Maria Maggiore and proceeding by the
Via Urbana and San Pietro in Vincoli, the travellers would find
themselves directly opposite the Colosseum.

This itinerary possessed another great advantage,ГўВҖВ”that of leaving Franz
at full liberty to indulge his deep reverie upon the subject of Signor
PastriniГўВҖВҷs story, in which his mysterious host of Monte Cristo was so
strangely mixed up. Seated with folded arms in a corner of the
carriage, he continued to ponder over the singular history he had so
lately listened to, and to ask himself an interminable number of
questions touching its various circumstances without, however, arriving
at a satisfactory reply to any of them.

One fact more than the rest brought his friend ГўВҖВңSinbad the SailorГўВҖВқ back
to his recollection, and that was the mysterious sort of intimacy that
seemed to exist between the brigands and the sailors; and PastriniГўВҖВҷs
account of VampaГўВҖВҷs having found refuge on board the vessels of
smugglers and fishermen, reminded Franz of the two Corsican bandits he
had found supping so amicably with the crew of the little yacht, which
had even deviated from its course and touched at Porto-Vecchio for the
sole purpose of landing them. The very name assumed by his host of
Monte Cristo and again repeated by the landlord of the HГғВҙtel de
Londres, abundantly proved to him that his island friend was playing
his philanthropic part on the shores of Piombino, Civita Vecchia,
Ostia, and GaГғВ«ta, as on those of Corsica, Tuscany, and Spain; and
further, Franz bethought him of having heard his singular entertainer
speak both of Tunis and Palermo, proving thereby how largely his circle
of acquaintances extended.

But however the mind of the young man might be absorbed in these
reflections, they were at once dispersed at the sight of the dark
frowning ruins of the stupendous Colosseum, through the various
openings of which the pale moonlight played and flickered like the
unearthly gleam from the eyes of the wandering dead. The carriage
stopped near the Meta Sudans; the door was opened, and the young men,
eagerly alighting, found themselves opposite a _cicerone_, who appeared
to have sprung up from the ground, so unexpected was his appearance.

The usual guide from the hotel having followed them, they had paid two
conductors, nor is it possible, at Rome, to avoid this abundant supply
of guides; besides the ordinary _cicerone_, who seizes upon you
directly you set foot in your hotel, and never quits you while you
remain in the city, there is also a special _cicerone_ belonging to
each monumentГўВҖВ”nay, almost to each part of a monument. It may,
therefore, be easily imagined there is no scarcity of guides at the
Colosseum, that wonder of all ages, which Martial thus eulogizes:

ГўВҖВңLet Memphis cease to boast the barbarous miracles of her pyramids, and
the wonders of Babylon be talked of no more among us; all must bow to
the superiority of the gigantic labor of the CГғВҰsars, and the many
voices of Fame spread far and wide the surpassing merits of this
incomparable monument.ГўВҖВқ

As for Albert and Franz, they essayed not to escape from their
_ciceronian_ tyrants; and, indeed, it would have been so much the more
difficult to break their bondage, as the guides alone are permitted to
visit these monuments with torches in their hands. Thus, then, the
young men made no attempt at resistance, but blindly and confidingly
surrendered themselves into the care and custody of their conductors.

Franz had already made seven or eight similar excursions to the
Colosseum, while his less favored companion trod for the first time in
his life the classic ground forming the monument of Flavius Vespasian;
and, to his credit be it spoken, his mind, even amid the glib loquacity
of the guides, was duly and deeply touched with awe and enthusiastic
admiration of all he saw; and certainly no adequate notion of these
stupendous ruins can be formed save by such as have visited them, and
more especially by moonlight, at which time the vast proportions of the
building appear twice as large when viewed by the mysterious beams of a
southern moonlit sky, whose rays are sufficiently clear and vivid to
light the horizon with a glow equal to the soft twilight of a western
clime.

Scarcely, therefore, had the reflective Franz walked a hundred steps
beneath the interior porticoes of the ruin, when, abandoning Albert to
the guides (who would by no means yield their prescriptive right of
carrying their victims through the routine regularly laid down, and as
regularly followed by them, but dragged the unconscious visitor to the
various objects with a pertinacity that admitted of no appeal,
beginning, as a matter of course, with the ГўВҖВңLionsГўВҖВҷ DenГўВҖВқ, the ГўВҖВңHall of
the GladiatorsГўВҖВқ and finishing with ГўВҖВңCГғВҰsarГўВҖВҷs PodiumГўВҖВқ), to escape a
jargon and mechanical survey of the wonders by which he was surrounded,
Franz ascended a half-dilapidated staircase, and, leaving them to
follow their monotonous round, seated himself at the foot of a column,
and immediately opposite a large aperture, which permitted him to enjoy
a full and undisturbed view of the gigantic dimensions of the majestic
ruin.

Franz had remained for nearly a quarter of an hour perfectly hidden by
the shadow of the vast column at whose base he had found a
resting-place, and from whence his eyes followed the motions of Albert
and his guides, who, holding torches in their hands, had emerged from a
vomitorium at the opposite extremity of the Colosseum, and then again
disappeared down the steps conducting to the seats reserved for the
Vestal virgins, resembling, as they glided along, some restless shades
following the flickering glare of so many _ignes fatui_. All at once
his ear caught a sound resembling that of a stone rolling down the
staircase opposite the one by which he had himself ascended. There was
nothing remarkable in the circumstance of a fragment of granite giving
way and falling heavily below; but it seemed to him that the substance
that fell gave way beneath the pressure of a foot, and also that
someone, who endeavored as much as possible to prevent his footsteps
from being heard, was approaching the spot where he sat.

Conjecture soon became certainty, for the figure of a man was
distinctly visible to Franz, gradually emerging from the staircase
opposite, upon which the moon was at that moment pouring a full tide of
silvery brightness.

The stranger thus presenting himself was probably a person who, like
Franz, preferred the enjoyment of solitude and his own thoughts to the
frivolous gabble of the guides. And his appearance had nothing
extraordinary in it; but the hesitation with which he proceeded,
stopping and listening with anxious attention at every step he took,
convinced Franz that he expected the arrival of some person.

By a sort of instinctive impulse, Franz withdrew as much as possible
behind his pillar.

About ten feet from the spot where he and the stranger were, the roof
had given way, leaving a large round opening, through which might be
seen the blue vault of heaven, thickly studded with stars.

Around this opening, which had, possibly, for ages permitted a free
entrance to the brilliant moonbeams that now illumined the vast pile,
grew a quantity of creeping plants, whose delicate green branches stood
out in bold relief against the clear azure of the firmament, while
large masses of thick, strong fibrous shoots forced their way through
the chasm, and hung floating to and fro, like so many waving strings.

The person whose mysterious arrival had attracted the attention of
Franz stood in a kind of half-light, that rendered it impossible to
distinguish his features, although his dress was easily made out. He
wore a large brown mantle, one fold of which, thrown over his left
shoulder, served likewise to mask the lower part of his countenance,
while the upper part was completely hidden by his broad-brimmed hat.
The lower part of his dress was more distinctly visible by the bright
rays of the moon, which, entering through the broken ceiling, shed
their refulgent beams on feet cased in elegantly made boots of polished
leather, over which descended fashionably cut trousers of black cloth.

20135m



From the imperfect means Franz had of judging, he could only come to
one conclusion,ГўВҖВ”that the person whom he was thus watching certainly
belonged to no inferior station of life.

Some few minutes had elapsed, and the stranger began to show manifest
signs of impatience, when a slight noise was heard outside the aperture
in the roof, and almost immediately a dark shadow seemed to obstruct
the flood of light that had entered it, and the figure of a man was
clearly seen gazing with eager scrutiny on the immense space beneath
him; then, as his eye caught sight of him in the mantle, he grasped a
floating mass of thickly matted boughs, and glided down by their help
to within three or four feet of the ground, and then leaped lightly on
his feet. The man who had performed this daring act with so much
indifference wore the Transtevere costume.

ГўВҖВңI beg your excellencyГўВҖВҷs pardon for keeping you waiting,ГўВҖВқ said the man,
in the Roman dialect, ГўВҖВңbut I donГўВҖВҷt think IГўВҖВҷm many minutes after my
time, ten oГўВҖВҷclock has just struck by the clock of Saint John Lateran.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay not a word about being late,ГўВҖВқ replied the stranger in purest
Tuscan; ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷtis I who am too soon. But even if you had caused me to wait
a little while, I should have felt quite sure that the delay was not
occasioned by any fault of yours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency is perfectly right in so thinking,ГўВҖВқ said the man; ГўВҖВңI
came here direct from the Castle of St. Angelo, and I had an immense
deal of trouble before I could get a chance to speak to Beppo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who is Beppo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, Beppo is employed in the prison, and I give him so much a year to
let me know what is going on within his holinessГўВҖВҷs castle.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed! You are a provident person, I see.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you see, no one knows what may happen. Perhaps some of these days
I may be entrapped, like poor Peppino and may be very glad to have some
little nibbling mouse to gnaw the meshes of my net, and so help me out
of prison.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBriefly, what did you learn?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat two executions of considerable interest will take place the day
after tomorrow at two oГўВҖВҷclock, as is customary at Rome at the
commencement of all great festivals. One of the culprits will be
_mazzolato_;3 he is an atrocious villain, who murdered the priest who
brought him up, and deserves not the smallest pity. The other sufferer
is sentenced to be _decapitato_;4 and he, your excellency, is poor
Peppino.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe fact is, that you have inspired not only the pontifical
government, but also the neighboring states, with such extreme fear,
that they are glad of all opportunity of making an example.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut Peppino did not even belong to my band; he was merely a poor
shepherd, whose only crime consisted in furnishing us with provisions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich makes him your accomplice to all intents and purposes. But mark
the distinction with which he is treated; instead of being knocked on
the head as you would be if once they caught hold of you, he is simply
sentenced to be guillotined, by which means, too, the amusements of the
day are diversified, and there is a spectacle to please every
spectator.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWithout reckoning the wholly unexpected one I am preparing to surprise
them with.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy good friend,ГўВҖВқ said the man in the cloak, ГўВҖВңexcuse me for saying that
you seem to me precisely in the mood to commit some wild or extravagant
act.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps I am; but one thing I have resolved on, and that is, to stop
at nothing to restore a poor devil to liberty, who has got into this
scrape solely from having served me. I should hate and despise myself
as a coward did I desert the brave fellow in his present extremity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what do you mean to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo surround the scaffold with twenty of my best men, who, at a signal
from me, will rush forward directly Peppino is brought for execution,
and, by the assistance of their stilettos, drive back the guard, and
carry off the prisoner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat seems to me as hazardous as uncertain, and convinces me that my
scheme is far better than yours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is your excellencyГўВҖВҷs project?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust this. I will so advantageously bestow 2,000 piastres, that the
person receiving them shall obtain a respite till next year for
Peppino; and during that year, another skilfully placed 1,000 piastres
will afford him the means of escaping from his prison.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you feel sure of succeeding?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu!_ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the man in the cloak, suddenly expressing
himself in French.

ГўВҖВңWhat did your excellency say?ГўВҖВқ inquired the other.

ГўВҖВңI said, my good fellow, that I would do more single-handed by the
means of gold than you and all your troop could effect with stilettos,
pistols, carbines, and blunderbusses included. Leave me, then, to act,
and have no fears for the result.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least, there can be no harm in myself and party being in readiness,
in case your excellency should fail.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNone whatever. Take what precautions you please, if it is any
satisfaction to you to do so; but rely upon my obtaining the reprieve I
seek.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRemember, the execution is fixed for the day after tomorrow, and that
you have but one day to work in.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what of that? Is not a day divided into twenty-four hours, each
hour into sixty minutes, and every minute sub-divided into sixty
seconds? Now in 86,400 seconds very many things can be done.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how shall I know whether your excellency has succeeded or not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that is very easily arranged. I have engaged the three lower
windows at the CafГғВ© Rospoli; should I have obtained the requisite
pardon for Peppino, the two outside windows will be hung with yellow
damasks, and the centre with white, having a large cross in red marked
on it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd whom will you employ to carry the reprieve to the officer
directing the execution?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSend one of your men, disguised as a penitent friar, and I will give
it to him. His dress will procure him the means of approaching the
scaffold itself, and he will deliver the official order to the officer,
who, in his turn, will hand it to the executioner; in the meantime, it
will be as well to acquaint Peppino with what we have determined on, if
it be only to prevent his dying of fear or losing his senses, because
in either case a very useless expense will have been incurred.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency,ГўВҖВқ said the man, ГўВҖВңyou are fully persuaded of my entire
devotion to you, are you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, I flatter myself that there can be no doubt of it,ГўВҖВқ replied the
cavalier in the cloak.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, only fulfil your promise of rescuing Peppino, and
henceforward you shall receive not only devotion, but the most absolute
obedience from myself and those under me that one human being can
render to another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave a care how far you pledge yourself, my good friend, for I may
remind you of your promise at some, perhaps, not very distant period,
when I, in my turn, may require your aid and influence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet that day come sooner or later, your excellency will find me what I
have found you in this my heavy trouble; and if from the other end of
the world you but write me word to do such or such a thing, you may
regard it as done, for done it shall be, on the word and faith ofГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush!ГўВҖВқ interrupted the stranger; ГўВҖВңI hear a noise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis some travellers, who are visiting the Colosseum by torchlight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTwere better we should not be seen together; those guides are nothing
but spies, and might possibly recognize you; and, however I may be
honored by your friendship, my worthy friend, if once the extent of our
intimacy were known, I am sadly afraid both my reputation and credit
would suffer thereby.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, if you obtain the reprieve?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe middle window at the CafГғВ© Rospoli will be hung with white damask,
bearing a red cross.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd if you fail?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen all three windows will have yellow draperies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd then, my good fellow, use your daggers in any way you please, and
I further promise you to be there as a spectator of your prowess.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe understand each other perfectly, then. Adieu, your excellency;
depend upon me as firmly as I do upon you.ГўВҖВқ

Saying these words, the Transteverin disappeared down the staircase,
while his companion, muffling his features more closely than before in
the folds of his mantle, passed almost close to Franz, and descended to
the arena by an outward flight of steps. The next minute Franz heard
himself called by Albert, who made the lofty building re-echo with the
sound of his friendГўВҖВҷs name. Franz, however, did not obey the summons
till he had satisfied himself that the two men whose conversation he
had overheard were at a sufficient distance to prevent his encountering
them in his descent. In ten minutes after the strangers had departed,
Franz was on the road to the Piazza di Spagna, listening with studied
indifference to the learned dissertation delivered by Albert, after the
manner of Pliny and Calpurnius, touching the iron-pointed nets used to
prevent the ferocious beasts from springing on the spectators.

Franz let him proceed without interruption, and, in fact, did not hear
what was said; he longed to be alone, and free to ponder over all that
had occurred. One of the two men, whose mysterious meeting in the
Colosseum he had so unintentionally witnessed, was an entire stranger
to him, but not so the other; and though Franz had been unable to
distinguish his features, from his being either wrapped in his mantle
or obscured by the shadow, the tones of his voice had made too powerful
an impression on him the first time he had heard them for him ever
again to forget them, hear them when or where he might. It was more
especially when this man was speaking in a manner half jesting, half
bitter, that FranzГўВҖВҷs ear recalled most vividly the deep sonorous, yet
well-pitched voice that had addressed him in the grotto of Monte
Cristo, and which he heard for the second time amid the darkness and
ruined grandeur of the Colosseum. And the more he thought, the more
entire was his conviction, that the person who wore the mantle was no
other than his former host and entertainer, ГўВҖВңSinbad the Sailor.ГўВҖВқ

20139m



Under any other circumstances, Franz would have found it impossible to
resist his extreme curiosity to know more of so singular a personage,
and with that intent have sought to renew their short acquaintance; but
in the present instance, the confidential nature of the conversation he
had overheard made him, with propriety, judge that his appearance at
such a time would be anything but agreeable. As we have seen,
therefore, he permitted his former host to retire without attempting a
recognition, but fully promising himself a rich indemnity for his
present forbearance should chance afford him another opportunity.

In vain did Franz endeavor to forget the many perplexing thoughts which
assailed him; in vain did he court the refreshment of sleep. Slumber
refused to visit his eyelids and the night was passed in feverish
contemplation of the chain of circumstances tending to prove the
identity of the mysterious visitant to the Colosseum with the
inhabitant of the grotto of Monte Cristo; and the more he thought, the
firmer grew his opinion on the subject.

Worn out at length, he fell asleep at daybreak, and did not awake till
late. Like a genuine Frenchman, Albert had employed his time in
arranging for the eveningГўВҖВҷs diversion; he had sent to engage a box at
the Teatro Argentina; and Franz, having a number of letters to write,
relinquished the carriage to Albert for the whole of the day.

At five oГўВҖВҷclock Albert returned, delighted with his dayГўВҖВҷs work; he had
been occupied in leaving his letters of introduction, and had received
in return more invitations to balls and routs than it would be possible
for him to accept; besides this, he had seen (as he called it) all the
remarkable sights at Rome. Yes, in a single day he had accomplished
what his more serious-minded companion would have taken weeks to
effect. Neither had he neglected to ascertain the name of the piece to
be played that night at the Teatro Argentina, and also what performers
appeared in it. The opera of _Parisina_ was announced for
representation, and the principal actors were Coselli, Moriani, and La
Specchia.

The young men, therefore, had reason to consider themselves fortunate
in having the opportunity of hearing one of the best works by the
composer of _Lucia di Lammermoor_, supported by three of the most
renowned vocalists of Italy.

Albert had never been able to endure the Italian theatres, with their
orchestras from which it is impossible to see, and the absence of
balconies, or open boxes; all these defects pressed hard on a man who
had had his stall at the Bouffes, and had shared a lower box at the
Opera. Still, in spite of this, Albert displayed his most dazzling and
effective costumes each time he visited the theatres; but, alas, his
elegant toilet was wholly thrown away, and one of the most worthy
representatives of Parisian fashion had to carry with him the
mortifying reflection that he had nearly overrun Italy without meeting
with a single adventure.

Sometimes Albert would affect to make a joke of his want of success;
but internally he was deeply wounded, and his self-love immensely
piqued, to think that Albert de Morcerf, the most admired and most
sought after of any young person of his day, should thus be passed
over, and merely have his labor for his pains. And the thing was so
much the more annoying, as, according to the characteristic modesty of
a Frenchman, Albert had quitted Paris with the full conviction that he
had only to show himself in Italy to carry all before him, and that
upon his return he should astonish the Parisian world with the recital
of his numerous love-affairs.

Alas, poor Albert! None of those interesting adventures fell in his
way; the lovely Genoese, Florentines, and Neapolitans were all
faithful, if not to their husbands, at least to their lovers, and
thought not of changing even for the splendid appearance of Albert de
Morcerf; and all he gained was the painful conviction that the ladies
of Italy have this advantage over those of France, that they are
faithful even in their infidelity.

Yet he could not restrain a hope that in Italy, as elsewhere, there
might be an exception to the general rule.

Albert, besides being an elegant, well-looking young man, was also
possessed of considerable talent and ability; moreover, he was a
viscountГўВҖВ”a recently created one, certainly, but in the present day it
is not necessary to go as far back as Noah in tracing a descent, and a
genealogical tree is equally estimated, whether dated from 1399 or
merely 1815; but to crown all these advantages, Albert de Morcerf
commanded an income of 50,000 livres, a more than sufficient sum to
render him a personage of considerable importance in Paris. It was
therefore no small mortification to him to have visited most of the
principal cities in Italy without having excited the most trifling
observation.

Albert, however, hoped to indemnify himself for all these slights and
indifferences during the Carnival, knowing full well that among the
different states and kingdoms in which this festivity is celebrated,
Rome is the spot where even the wisest and gravest throw off the usual
rigidity of their lives, and deign to mingle in the follies of this
time of liberty and relaxation. The Carnival was to commence on the
morrow; therefore Albert had not an instant to lose in setting forth
the programme of his hopes, expectations, and claims to notice.

With this design he had engaged a box in the most conspicuous part of
the theatre, and exerted himself to set off his personal attractions by
the aid of the most rich and elaborate toilet. The box taken by Albert
was in the first circle; although each of the three tiers of boxes is
deemed equally aristocratic, and is, for this reason, generally styled
the ГўВҖВңnobilityГўВҖВҷs boxes,ГўВҖВқ and although the box engaged for the two
friends was sufficiently capacious to contain at least a dozen persons,
it had cost less than would be paid at some of the French theatres for
one admitting merely four occupants.

Another motive had influenced AlbertГўВҖВҷs selection of his seat,ГўВҖВ”who knew
but that, thus advantageously placed, he might not in truth attract the
notice of some fair Roman, and an introduction might ensue that would
procure him the offer of a seat in a carriage, or a place in a princely
balcony, from which he might behold the gayeties of the Carnival?

These united considerations made Albert more lively and anxious to
please than he had hitherto been. Totally disregarding the business of
the stage, he leaned from his box and began attentively scrutinizing
the beauty of each pretty woman, aided by a powerful opera-glass; but,
alas, this attempt to attract notice wholly failed; not even curiosity
had been excited, and it was but too apparent that the lovely
creatures, into whose good graces he was desirous of stealing, were all
so much engrossed with themselves, their lovers, or their own thoughts,
that they had not so much as noticed him or the manipulation of his
glass.

The truth was, that the anticipated pleasures of the Carnival, with the
ГўВҖВңHoly WeekГўВҖВқ that was to succeed it, so filled every fair breast, as to
prevent the least attention being bestowed even on the business of the
stage. The actors made their entries and exits unobserved or unthought
of; at certain conventional moments, the spectators would suddenly
cease their conversation, or rouse themselves from their musings, to
listen to some brilliant effort of MorianiГўВҖВҷs, a well-executed
recitative by Coselli, or to join in loud applause at the wonderful
powers of La Specchia; but that momentary excitement over, they quickly
relapsed into their former state of preoccupation or interesting
conversation.

Towards the close of the first act, the door of a box which had been
hitherto vacant was opened; a lady entered to whom Franz had been
introduced in Paris, where indeed, he had imagined she still was. The
quick eye of Albert caught the involuntary start with which his friend
beheld the new arrival, and, turning to him, he said hastily:

ГўВҖВңDo you know the woman who has just entered that box?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; what do you think of her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, she is perfectly lovelyГўВҖВ”what a complexion! And such magnificent
hair! Is she French?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; a Venetian.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd her name isГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCountess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, I know her by name!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert; ГўВҖВңshe is said to possess as
much wit and cleverness as beauty. I was to have been presented to her
when I met her at Madame VillefortГўВҖВҷs ball.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I assist you in repairing your negligence?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz.

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow, are you really on such good terms with her as to
venture to take me to her box?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, I have only had the honor of being in her society and conversing
with her three or four times in my life; but you know that even such an
acquaintance as that might warrant my doing what you ask.ГўВҖВқ

At that instant, the countess perceived Franz, and graciously waved her
hand to him, to which he replied by a respectful inclination of the
head. ГўВҖВңUpon my word,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңyou seem to be on excellent terms
with the beautiful countess.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken in thinking so,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz calmly; ГўВҖВңbut you
merely fall into the same error which leads so many of our countrymen
to commit the most egregious blunders,ГўВҖВ”I mean that of judging the
habits and customs of Italy and Spain by our Parisian notions; believe
me, nothing is more fallacious than to form any estimate of the degree
of intimacy you may suppose existing among persons by the familiar
terms they seem upon; there is a similarity of feeling at this instant
between ourselves and the countessГўВҖВ”nothing more.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs there, indeed, my good fellow? Pray tell me, is it sympathy of
heart?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; of taste,ГўВҖВқ continued Franz gravely.

ГўВҖВңAnd in what manner has this congeniality of mind been evinced?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the countessГўВҖВҷs visiting the Colosseum, as we did last night, by
moonlight, and nearly alone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou were with her, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did you say to her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, we talked of the illustrious dead of whom that magnificent ruin is
a glorious monument!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon my word,ГўВҖВқ cried Albert, ГўВҖВңyou must have been a very entertaining
companion alone, or all but alone, with a beautiful woman in such a
place of sentiment as the Colosseum, and yet to find nothing better to
talk about than the dead! All I can say is, if ever I should get such a
chance, the living should be my theme.ГўВҖВқ

20143m



ГўВҖВңAnd you will probably find your theme ill-chosen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, breaking in upon his discourse, ГўВҖВңnever mind the
past; let us only remember the present. Are you not going to keep your
promise of introducing me to the fair subject of our remarks?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, directly the curtain falls on the stage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat a confounded long time this first act lasts. I believe, on my
soul, that they never mean to finish it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, they will; only listen to that charming finale. How
exquisitely Coselli sings his part.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what an awkward, inelegant fellow he is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, what do you say to La Specchia? Did you ever see anything
more perfect than her acting?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you know, my dear fellow, when one has been accustomed to
Malibran and Sontag, such singers as these donГўВҖВҷt make the same
impression on you they perhaps do on others.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least, you must admire MorianiГўВҖВҷs style and execution.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI never fancied men of his dark, ponderous appearance singing with a
voice like a womanГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy good friend,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, turning to him, while Albert continued to
point his glass at every box in the theatre, ГўВҖВңyou seem determined not
to approve; you are really too difficult to please.ГўВҖВқ

The curtain at length fell on the performances, to the infinite
satisfaction of the Viscount of Morcerf, who seized his hat, rapidly
passed his fingers through his hair, arranged his cravat and
wristbands, and signified to Franz that he was waiting for him to lead
the way.

Franz, who had mutely interrogated the countess, and received from her
a gracious smile in token that he would be welcome, sought not to
retard the gratification of AlbertГўВҖВҷs eager impatience, but began at
once the tour of the house, closely followed by Albert, who availed
himself of the few minutes required to reach the opposite side of the
theatre to settle the height and smoothness of his collar, and to
arrange the lappets of his coat. This important task was just completed
as they arrived at the countessГўВҖВҷs box.

At the knock, the door was immediately opened, and the young man who
was seated beside the countess, in obedience to the Italian custom,
instantly rose and surrendered his place to the strangers, who, in
turn, would be expected to retire upon the arrival of other visitors.

Franz presented Albert as one of the most distinguished young men of
the day, both as regarded his position in society and extraordinary
talents; nor did he say more than the truth, for in Paris and the
circle in which the viscount moved, he was looked upon and cited as a
model of perfection. Franz added that his companion, deeply grieved at
having been prevented the honor of being presented to the countess
during her sojourn in Paris, was most anxious to make up for it, and
had requested him (Franz) to remedy the past misfortune by conducting
him to her box, and concluded by asking pardon for his presumption in
having taken it upon himself to do so.

The countess, in reply, bowed gracefully to Albert, and extended her
hand with cordial kindness to Franz; then, inviting Albert to take the
vacant seat beside her, she recommended Franz to take the next best, if
he wished to view the ballet, and pointed to the one behind her own
chair.

Albert was soon deeply engrossed in discoursing upon Paris and Parisian
matters, speaking to the countess of the various persons they both knew
there. Franz perceived how completely he was in his element; and,
unwilling to interfere with the pleasure he so evidently felt, took up
AlbertГўВҖВҷs glass, and began in his turn to survey the audience.

Sitting alone, in the front of a box immediately opposite, but situated
on the third row, was a woman of exquisite beauty, dressed in a Greek
costume, which evidently, from the ease and grace with which she wore
it, was her national attire. Behind her, but in deep shadow, was the
outline of a masculine figure; but the features of this latter
personage it was not possible to distinguish. Franz could not forbear
breaking in upon the apparently interesting conversation passing
between the countess and Albert, to inquire of the former if she knew
who was the fair Albanian opposite, since beauty such as hers was well
worthy of being observed by either sex.

ГўВҖВңAll I can tell about her,ГўВҖВқ replied the countess, ГўВҖВңis, that she has
been at Rome since the beginning of the season; for I saw her where she
now sits the very first night of the season, and since then she has
never missed a performance. Sometimes she is accompanied by the person
who is now with her, and at others she is merely attended by a black
servant.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what do you think of her personal appearance?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I consider her perfectly lovelyГўВҖВ”she is just my idea of what Medora
must have been.ГўВҖВқ

Franz and the countess exchanged a smile, and then the latter resumed
her conversation with Albert, while Franz returned to his previous
survey of the house and company. The curtain rose on the ballet, which
was one of those excellent specimens of the Italian school, admirably
arranged and put on the stage by Henri, who has established for himself
a great reputation throughout Italy for his taste and skill in the
choreographic artГўВҖВ”one of those masterly productions of grace, method,
and elegance in which the whole _corps de ballet_, from the principal
dancers to the humblest supernumerary, are all engaged on the stage at
the same time; and a hundred and fifty persons may be seen exhibiting
the same attitude, or elevating the same arm or leg with a simultaneous
movement, that would lead you to suppose that but one mind, one act of
volition, influenced the moving mass.

The ballet was called _Poliska_.

However much the ballet might have claimed his attention, Franz was too
deeply occupied with the beautiful Greek to take any note of it; while
she seemed to experience an almost childlike delight in watching it,
her eager, animated looks contrasting strongly with the utter
indifference of her companion, who, during the whole time the piece
lasted, never even moved, not even when the furious, crashing din
produced by the trumpets, cymbals, and Chinese bells sounded their
loudest from the orchestra. Of this he took no heed, but was, as far as
appearances might be trusted, enjoying soft repose and bright celestial
dreams.

The ballet at length came to a close, and the curtain fell amid the
loud, unanimous plaudits of an enthusiastic and delighted audience.

Owing to the very judicious plan of dividing the two acts of the opera
with a ballet, the pauses between the performances are very short, the
singers in the opera having time to repose themselves and change their
costume, when necessary, while the dancers are executing their
pirouettes and exhibiting their graceful steps.

The overture to the second act began; and, at the first sound of the
leaderГўВҖВҷs bow across his violin, Franz observed the sleeper slowly arise
and approach the Greek girl, who turned around to say a few words to
him, and then, leaning forward again on the railing of her box, she
became as absorbed as before in what was going on.

The countenance of the person who had addressed her remained so
completely in the shade, that, though Franz tried his utmost, he could
not distinguish a single feature. The curtain rose, and the attention
of Franz was attracted by the actors; and his eyes turned from the box
containing the Greek girl and her strange companion to watch the
business of the stage.

Most of my readers are aware that the second act of _Parisina_ opens
with the celebrated and effective duet in which Parisina, while
sleeping, betrays to Azzo the secret of her love for Ugo. The injured
husband goes through all the emotions of jealousy, until conviction
seizes on his mind, and then, in a frenzy of rage and indignation, he
awakens his guilty wife to tell her that he knows her guilt and to
threaten her with his vengeance.

This duet is one of the most beautiful, expressive and terrible
conceptions that has ever emanated from the fruitful pen of Donizetti.
Franz now listened to it for the third time; yet its notes, so tenderly
expressive and fearfully grand as the wretched husband and wife give
vent to their different griefs and passions, thrilled through the soul
of Franz with an effect equal to his first emotions upon hearing it.
Excited beyond his usual calm demeanor, Franz rose with the audience,
and was about to join the loud, enthusiastic applause that followed;
but suddenly his purpose was arrested, his hands fell by his sides, and
the half-uttered ГўВҖВңbravosГўВҖВқ expired on his lips.

The occupant of the box in which the Greek girl sat appeared to share
the universal admiration that prevailed; for he left his seat to stand
up in front, so that, his countenance being fully revealed, Franz had
no difficulty in recognizing him as the mysterious inhabitant of Monte
Cristo, and the very same person he had encountered the preceding
evening in the ruins of the Colosseum, and whose voice and figure had
seemed so familiar to him.

All doubt of his identity was now at an end; his singular host
evidently resided at Rome. The surprise and agitation occasioned by
this full confirmation of FranzГўВҖВҷs former suspicion had no doubt
imparted a corresponding expression to his features; for the countess,
after gazing with a puzzled look at his face, burst into a fit of
laughter, and begged to know what had happened.

ГўВҖВңCountess,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, totally unheeding her raillery, ГўВҖВңI asked
you a short time since if you knew any particulars respecting the
Albanian lady opposite; I must now beseech you to inform me who and
what is her husband?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay,ГўВҖВқ answered the countess, ГўВҖВңI know no more of him than yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps you never before noticed him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat a questionГўВҖВ”so truly French! Do you not know that we Italians have
eyes only for the man we love?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz.

ГўВҖВңAll I can say is,ГўВҖВқ continued the countess, taking up the _lorgnette_,
and directing it toward the box in question, ГўВҖВңthat the gentleman, whose
history I am unable to furnish, seems to me as though he had just been
dug up; he looks more like a corpse permitted by some friendly
grave-digger to quit his tomb for a while, and revisit this earth of
ours, than anything human. How ghastly pale he is!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, he is always as colorless as you now see him,ГўВҖВқ said Franz.

ГўВҖВңThen you know him?ГўВҖВқ almost screamed the countess. ГўВҖВңOh, pray do, for
heavenГўВҖВҷs sake, tell us all aboutГўВҖВ”is he a vampire, or a resuscitated
corpse, or what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI fancy I have seen him before; and I even think he recognizes me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I can well understand,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, shrugging up her
beautiful shoulders, as though an involuntary shudder passed through
her veins, ГўВҖВңthat those who have once seen that man will never be likely
to forget him.ГўВҖВқ

The sensation experienced by Franz was evidently not peculiar to
himself; another, and wholly uninterested person, felt the same
unaccountable awe and misgiving.

ГўВҖВңWell.ГўВҖВқ inquired Franz, after the countess had a second time directed
her _lorgnette_ at the box, ГўВҖВңwhat do you think of our opposite
neighbor?ГўВҖВқ

20147m



ГўВҖВңWhy, that he is no other than Lord Ruthven himself in a living form.ГўВҖВқ

This fresh allusion to Byron5 drew a smile to FranzГўВҖВҷs countenance;
although he could but allow that if anything was likely to induce
belief in the existence of vampires, it would be the presence of such a
man as the mysterious personage before him.

ГўВҖВңI must positively find out who and what he is,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, rising
from his seat.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ cried the countess; ГўВҖВңyou must not leave me. I depend upon you
to escort me home. Oh, indeed, I cannot permit you to go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible,ГўВҖВқ whispered Franz, ГўВҖВңthat you entertain any fear?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷll tell you,ГўВҖВқ answered the countess. ГўВҖВңByron had the most perfect
belief in the existence of vampires, and even assured me that he had
seen them. The description he gave me perfectly corresponds with the
features and character of the man before us. Oh, he is the exact
personification of what I have been led to expect! The coal-black hair,
large bright, glittering eyes, in which a wild, unearthly fire seems
burning,ГўВҖВ”the same ghastly paleness. Then observe, too, that the woman
with him is altogether unlike all others of her sex. She is a
foreignerГўВҖВ”a stranger. Nobody knows who she is, or where she comes from.
No doubt she belongs to the same horrible race he does, and is, like
himself, a dealer in magical arts. I entreat of you not to go near
himГўВҖВ”at least tonight; and if tomorrow your curiosity still continues as
great, pursue your researches if you will; but tonight you neither can
nor shall. For that purpose I mean to keep you all to myself.ГўВҖВқ

Franz protested he could not defer his pursuit till the following day,
for many reasons.

ГўВҖВңListen to me,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, ГўВҖВңand do not be so very headstrong. I
am going home. I have a party at my house tonight, and therefore cannot
possibly remain till the end of the opera. Now, I cannot for one
instant believe you so devoid of gallantry as to refuse a lady your
escort when she even condescends to ask you for it.ГўВҖВқ

There was nothing else left for Franz to do but to take up his hat,
open the door of the box, and offer the countess his arm. It was quite
evident, by her manner, that her uneasiness was not feigned; and Franz
himself could not resist a feeling of superstitious dreadГўВҖВ”so much the
stronger in him, as it arose from a variety of corroborative
recollections, while the terror of the countess sprang from an
instinctive belief, originally created in her mind by the wild tales
she had listened to till she believed them truths. Franz could even
feel her arm tremble as he assisted her into the carriage. Upon
arriving at her hotel, Franz perceived that she had deceived him when
she spoke of expecting company; on the contrary, her own return before
the appointed hour seemed greatly to astonish the servants.

ГўВҖВңExcuse my little subterfuge,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, in reply to her
companionГўВҖВҷs half-reproachful observation on the subject; ГўВҖВңbut that
horrid man had made me feel quite uncomfortable, and I longed to be
alone, that I might compose my startled mind.ГўВҖВқ

Franz essayed to smile.

ГўВҖВңNay,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңdo not smile; it ill accords with the expression of
your countenance, and I am sure it does not spring from your heart.
However, promise me one thing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPromise me, I say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will do anything you desire, except relinquish my determination of
finding out who this man is. I have more reasons than you can imagine
for desiring to know who he is, from whence he came, and whither he is
going.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere he comes from I am ignorant; but I can readily tell you where he
is going to, and that is down below, without the least doubt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us only speak of the promise you wished me to make,ГўВҖВқ said Franz.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, you must give me your word to return immediately to your
hotel, and make no attempt to follow this man tonight. There are
certain affinities between the persons we quit and those we meet
afterwards. For heavenГўВҖВҷs sake, do not serve as a conductor between that
man and me. Pursue your chase after him tomorrow as eagerly as you
please; but never bring him near me, if you would not see me die of
terror. And now, good-night; go to your rooms, and try to sleep away
all recollections of this evening. For my own part, I am quite sure I
shall not be able to close my eyes.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, the countess quitted Franz, leaving him unable to decide
whether she were merely amusing herself at his expense, or whether her
fears and agitations were genuine.

Upon his return to the hotel, Franz found Albert in his dressing-gown
and slippers, listlessly extended on a sofa, smoking a cigar.

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow!ГўВҖВқ cried he, springing up, ГўВҖВңis it really you? Why, I did
not expect to see you before tomorrow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңI am glad of this opportunity to tell
you, once and forever, that you entertain a most erroneous notion
concerning Italian women. I should have thought the continual failures
you have met with in all your own love affairs might have taught you
better by this time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon my soul, these women would puzzle the very Devil to read them
aright. Why, hereГўВҖВ”they give you their handГўВҖВ”they press yours in
returnГўВҖВ”they keep up a whispering conversationГўВҖВ”permit you to accompany
them home. Why, if a Parisian were to indulge in a quarter of these
marks of flattering attention, her reputation would be gone forever.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the very reason why the women of this fine country, ГўВҖВҳwhere sounds
the _si_,ГўВҖВҷ as Dante writes, put so little restraint on their words and
actions, is because they live so much in public, and have really
nothing to conceal. Besides, you must have perceived that the countess
was really alarmed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt what? At the sight of that respectable gentleman sitting opposite
to us in the same box with the lovely Greek girl? Now, for my part, I
met them in the lobby after the conclusion of the piece; and hang me,
if I can guess where you took your notions of the other world from. I
can assure you that this hobgoblin of yours is a deuced fine-looking
fellowГўВҖВ”admirably dressed. Indeed, I feel quite sure, from the cut of
his clothes, they are made by a first-rate Paris tailorГўВҖВ”probably Blin
or Humann. He was rather too pale, certainly; but then, you know,
paleness is always looked upon as a strong proof of aristocratic
descent and distinguished breeding.ГўВҖВқ

Franz smiled; for he well remembered that Albert particularly prided
himself on the entire absence of color in his own complexion.

ГўВҖВңWell, that tends to confirm my own ideas,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңthat the
countessГўВҖВҷs suspicions were destitute alike of sense and reason. Did he
speak in your hearing? and did you catch any of his words?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did; but they were uttered in the Romaic dialect. I knew that from
the mixture of Greek words. I donГўВҖВҷt know whether I ever told you that
when I was at college I was ratherГўВҖВ”rather strong in Greek.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe spoke the Romaic language, did he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat settles it,ГўВҖВқ murmured Franz. ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis he, past all doubt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing, nothing. But tell me, what were you thinking about when I
came in?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I was arranging a little surprise for you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed. Of what nature?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you know it is quite impossible to procure a carriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; and I also know that we have done all that human means
afforded to endeavor to get one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, then, in this difficulty a bright idea has flashed across my
brain.ГўВҖВқ

Franz looked at Albert as though he had not much confidence in the
suggestions of his imagination.

ГўВҖВңI tell you what, M. Franz,ГўВҖВқ cried Albert, ГўВҖВңyou deserve to be called
out for such a misgiving and incredulous glance as that you were
pleased to bestow on me just now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I promise to give you the satisfaction of a gentleman if your
scheme turns out as ingenious as you assert.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, hearken to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI listen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou agree, do you not, that obtaining a carriage is out of the
question?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNeither can we procure horses?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue; we have offered any sum, but have failed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, now, what do you say to a cart? I dare say such a thing might be
had.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery possibly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd a pair of oxen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs easily found as the cart.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you see, my good fellow, with a cart and a couple of oxen our
business can be managed. The cart must be tastefully ornamented; and if
you and I dress ourselves as Neapolitan reapers, we may get up a
striking tableau, after the manner of that splendid picture by LГғВ©opold
Robert. It would add greatly to the effect if the countess would join
us in the costume of a peasant from Puzzoli or Sorrento. Our group
would then be quite complete, more especially as the countess is quite
beautiful enough to represent a Madonna.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңthis time, M. Albert, I am bound to give you
credit for having hit upon a most capital idea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd quite a national one, too,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert with gratified pride.
ГўВҖВңA mere masque borrowed from our own festivities. Ha, ha, ye Romans!
you thought to make us, unhappy strangers, trot at the heels of your
processions, like so many lazzaroni, because no carriages or horses are
to be had in your beggarly city. But you donГўВҖВҷt know us; when we canГўВҖВҷt
have one thing we invent another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd have you communicated your triumphant idea to anybody?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnly to our host. Upon my return home I sent for him, and I then
explained to him what I wished to procure. He assured me that nothing
would be easier than to furnish all I desired. One thing I was sorry
for; when I bade him have the horns of the oxen gilded, he told me
there would not be time, as it would require three days to do that; so
you see we must do without this little superfluity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where is he now?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOur host.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGone out in search of our equipage, by tomorrow it might be too late.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen he will be able to give us an answer tonight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I expect him every minute.ГўВҖВқ

At this instant the door opened, and the head of Signor Pastrini
appeared. ГўВҖВң_Permesso_?ГўВҖВқ inquired he.

ГўВҖВңCertainlyГўВҖВ”certainly,ГўВҖВқ cried Franz. ГўВҖВңCome in, my host.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, then,ГўВҖВқ asked Albert eagerly, ГўВҖВңhave you found the desired cart and
oxen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBetter than that!ГўВҖВқ replied Signor Pastrini, with the air of a man
perfectly well satisfied with himself.

ГўВҖВңTake care, my worthy host,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВң_better_ is a sure enemy to
_well_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet your excellencies only leave the matter to me,ГўВҖВқ returned Signor
Pastrini in a tone indicative of unbounded self-confidence.

ГўВҖВңBut what _have_ you done?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz. ГўВҖВңSpeak out, thereГўВҖВҷs a worthy
fellow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellencies are aware,ГўВҖВқ responded the landlord, swelling with
importance, ГўВҖВңthat the Count of Monte Cristo is living on the same floor
with yourselves!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should think we did know it,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert, ГўВҖВңsince it is owing
to that circumstance that we are packed into these small rooms, like
two poor students in the back streets of Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen, then, the Count of Monte Cristo, hearing of the dilemma in which
you are placed, has sent to offer you seats in his carriage and two
places at his windows in the Palazzo Rospoli.ГўВҖВқ The friends looked at
each other with unutterable surprise.

ГўВҖВңBut do you think,ГўВҖВқ asked Albert, ГўВҖВңthat we ought to accept such offers
from a perfect stranger?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat sort of person is this Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz of his
host.

ГўВҖВңA very great nobleman, but whether Maltese or Sicilian I cannot
exactly say; but this I know, that he is noble as a Borghese and rich
as a gold mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt seems to me,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, speaking in an undertone to Albert, ГўВҖВңthat
if this person merited the high panegyrics of our landlord, he would
have conveyed his invitation through another channel, and not permitted
it to be brought to us in this unceremonious way. He would have
writtenГўВҖВ”orГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

At this instant someone knocked at the door.

ГўВҖВңCome in,ГўВҖВқ said Franz.

A servant, wearing a livery of considerable style and richness,
appeared at the threshold, and, placing two cards in the landlordГўВҖВҷs
hands, who forthwith presented them to the two young men, he said:

ГўВҖВңPlease to deliver these, from the Count of Monte Cristo to Vicomte
Albert de Morcerf and M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay. The Count of Monte Cristo,ГўВҖВқ
continued the servant, ГўВҖВңbegs these gentlemenГўВҖВҷs permission to wait upon
them as their neighbor, and he will be honored by an intimation of what
time they will please to receive him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFaith, Franz,ГўВҖВқ whispered Albert, ГўВҖВңthere is not much to find fault with
here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell the count,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңthat we will do ourselves the
pleasure of calling on him.ГўВҖВқ

The servant bowed and retired.

ГўВҖВңThat is what I call an elegant mode of attack,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңYou were
quite correct in what you said, Signor Pastrini. The Count of Monte
Cristo is unquestionably a man of first-rate breeding and knowledge of
the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you accept his offer?ГўВҖВқ said the host.

ГўВҖВңOf course we do,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert. ГўВҖВңStill, I must own I am sorry to be
obliged to give up the cart and the group of reapersГўВҖВ”it would have
produced such an effect! And were it not for the windows at the Palazzo
Rospoli, by way of recompense for the loss of our beautiful scheme, I
donГўВҖВҷt know but what I should have held on by my original plan. What say
you, Franz?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I agree with you; the windows in the Palazzo Rospoli alone decided
me.ГўВҖВқ

The truth was, that the mention of two places in the Palazzo Rospoli
had recalled to Franz the conversation he had overheard the preceding
evening in the ruins of the Colosseum between the mysterious unknown
and the Transteverin, in which the stranger in the cloak had undertaken
to obtain the freedom of a condemned criminal; and if this muffled-up
individual proved (as Franz felt sure he would) the same as the person
he had just seen in the Teatro Argentina, then he should be able to
establish his identity, and also to prosecute his researches respecting
him with perfect facility and freedom.

Franz passed the night in confused dreams respecting the two meetings
he had already had with his mysterious tormentor, and in waking
speculations as to what the morrow would produce. The next day must
clear up every doubt; and unless his near neighbor and would-be friend,
the Count of Monte Cristo, possessed the ring of Gyges, and by its
power was able to render himself invisible, it was very certain he
could not escape this time.

Eight oГўВҖВҷclock found Franz up and dressed, while Albert, who had not the
same motives for early rising, was still soundly asleep. The first act
of Franz was to summon his landlord, who presented himself with his
accustomed obsequiousness.

ГўВҖВңPray, Signor Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ asked Franz, ГўВҖВңis not some execution appointed
to take place today?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency; but if your reason for inquiry is that you may
procure a window to view it from, you are much too late.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ answered Franz, ГўВҖВңI had no such intention; and even if I had
felt a wish to witness the spectacle, I might have done so from Monte
Pincio; could I not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed mine host, ГўВҖВңI did not think it likely your excellency
would have chosen to mingle with such a rabble as are always collected
on that hill, which, indeed, they consider as exclusively belonging to
themselves.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery possibly I may not go,ГўВҖВқ answered Franz; ГўВҖВңbut in case I feel
disposed, give me some particulars of todayГўВҖВҷs executions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat particulars would your excellency like to hear?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, the number of persons condemned to suffer, their names, and
description of the death they are to die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat happens just lucky, your excellency! Only a few minutes ago they
brought me the _tavolettas_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat are they?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSort of wooden tablets hung up at the corners of streets the evening
before an execution, on which is pasted up a paper containing the names
of the condemned persons, their crimes, and mode of punishment. The
reason for so publicly announcing all this is, that all good and
faithful Catholics may offer up their prayers for the unfortunate
culprits, and, above all, beseech of Heaven to grant them a sincere
repentance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd these tablets are brought to you that you may add your prayers to
those of the faithful, are they?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz somewhat incredulously.

ГўВҖВңOh, dear, no, your excellency! I have not time for anybodyГўВҖВҷs affairs
but my own and those of my honorable guests; but I make an agreement
with the man who pastes up the papers, and he brings them to me as he
would the playbills, that in case any person staying at my hotel should
like to witness an execution, he may obtain every requisite information
concerning the time and place etc.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon my word, that is a most delicate attention on your part, Signor
Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ cried Franz.

ГўВҖВңWhy, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ returned the landlord, chuckling and rubbing
his hands with infinite complacency, ГўВҖВңI think I may take upon myself to
say I neglect nothing to deserve the support and patronage of the noble
visitors to this poor hotel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI see that plainly enough, my most excellent host, and you may rely
upon me to proclaim so striking a proof of your attention to your
guests wherever I go. Meanwhile, oblige me by a sight of one of these
_tavolettas_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing can be easier than to comply with your excellencyГўВҖВҷs wish,ГўВҖВқ
said the landlord, opening the door of the chamber; ГўВҖВңI have caused one
to be placed on the landing, close by your apartment.ГўВҖВқ

Then, taking the tablet from the wall, he handed it to Franz, who read
as follows:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe public is informed that on Wednesday, February 23rd, being the
first day of the Carnival, executions will take place in the Piazza del
Popolo, by order of the Tribunal of the Rota, of two persons, named
Andrea Rondolo, and Peppino, otherwise called Rocca Priori; the former
found guilty of the murder of a venerable and exemplary priest, named
Don CГғВ©sar Torlini, canon of the church of St. John Lateran; and the
latter convicted of being an accomplice of the atrocious and sanguinary
bandit, Luigi Vampa, and his band. The first-named malefactor will be
_mazzolato_, the second culprit _decapitato_.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe prayers of all good Christians are entreated for these
unfortunate men, that it may please God to awaken them to a sense of
their guilt, and to grant them a hearty and sincere repentance for
their crimes.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

This was precisely what Franz had heard the evening before in the ruins
of the Colosseum. No part of the programme differed,ГўВҖВ”the names of the
condemned persons, their crimes, and mode of punishment, all agreed
with his previous information. In all probability, therefore, the
Transteverin was no other than the bandit Luigi Vampa himself, and the
man shrouded in the mantle the same he had known as ГўВҖВңSinbad the
Sailor,ГўВҖВқ but who, no doubt, was still pursuing his philanthropic
expedition in Rome, as he had already done at Porto-Vecchio and Tunis.

Time was getting on, however, and Franz deemed it advisable to awaken
Albert; but at the moment he prepared to proceed to his chamber, his
friend entered the room in perfect costume for the day. The anticipated
delights of the Carnival had so run in his head as to make him leave
his pillow long before his usual hour.

ГўВҖВңNow, my excellent Signor Pastrini,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, addressing his
landlord, ГўВҖВңsince we are both ready, do you think we may proceed at once
to visit the Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMost assuredly,ГўВҖВқ replied he. ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo is always an
early riser; and I can answer for his having been up these two hours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you really consider we shall not be intruding if we pay our
respects to him directly?ГўВҖВқ

20155m



ГўВҖВңOh, I am quite sure. I will take all the blame on myself if you find I
have led you into an error.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, if it be so, are you ready, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerfectly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us go and return our best thanks for his courtesy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, let us do so.ГўВҖВқ

The landlord preceded the friends across the landing, which was all
that separated them from the apartments of the count, rang at the bell,
and, upon the door being opened by a servant, said:

ГўВҖВң_I signori Francesi_.ГўВҖВқ

The domestic bowed respectfully, and invited them to enter. They passed
through two rooms, furnished in a luxurious manner they had not
expected to see under the roof of Signor Pastrini, and were shown into
an elegantly fitted-up drawing-room. The richest Turkey carpets covered
the floor, and the softest and most inviting couches, easy-chairs, and
sofas, offered their high-piled and yielding cushions to such as
desired repose or refreshment. Splendid paintings by the first masters
were ranged against the walls, intermingled with magnificent trophies
of war, while heavy curtains of costly tapestry were suspended before
the different doors of the room.

ГўВҖВңIf your excellencies will please to be seated,ГўВҖВқ said the man, ГўВҖВңI will
let the count know that you are here.ГўВҖВқ

And with these words he disappeared behind one of the tapestried
_portiГғВЁres_. As the door opened, the sound of a _guzla_ reached the
ears of the young men, but was almost immediately lost, for the rapid
closing of the door merely allowed one rich swell of harmony to enter.
Franz and Albert looked inquiringly at each other, then at the gorgeous
furnishings of the apartment. Everything seemed more magnificent at a
second view than it had done at their first rapid survey.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Franz to his friend, ГўВҖВңwhat think you of all this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, upon my soul, my dear fellow, it strikes me that our elegant and
attentive neighbor must either be some successful stock-jobber who has
speculated in the fall of the Spanish funds, or some prince travelling
_incog_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush, hush!ГўВҖВқ replied Franz; ГўВҖВңwe shall ascertain who and what he isГўВҖВ”he
comes!ГўВҖВқ

As Franz spoke, he heard the sound of a door turning on its hinges, and
almost immediately afterwards the tapestry was drawn aside, and the
owner of all these riches stood before the two young men. Albert
instantly rose to meet him, but Franz remained, in a manner, spellbound
on his chair; for in the person of him who had just entered he
recognized not only the mysterious visitant to the Colosseum, and the
occupant of the box at the Teatro Argentina, but also his extraordinary
host of Monte Cristo.

20157m




 Chapter 35. La Mazzolata

Gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said the Count of Monte Cristo as he entered, ГўВҖВңI pray you
excuse me for suffering my visit to be anticipated; but I feared to
disturb you by presenting myself earlier at your apartments; besides,
you sent me word that you would come to me, and I have held myself at
your disposal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFranz and I have to thank you a thousand times, count,ГўВҖВқ returned
Albert; ГўВҖВңyou extricated us from a great dilemma, and we were on the
point of inventing a very fantastic vehicle when your friendly
invitation reached us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ returned the count, motioning the two young men to sit down.
ГўВҖВңIt was the fault of that blockhead Pastrini, that I did not sooner
assist you in your distress. He did not mention a syllable of your
embarrassment to me, when he knows that, alone and isolated as I am, I
seek every opportunity of making the acquaintance of my neighbors. As
soon as I learned I could in any way assist you, I most eagerly seized
the opportunity of offering my services.ГўВҖВқ

The two young men bowed. Franz had, as yet, found nothing to say; he
had come to no determination, and as nothing in the countГўВҖВҷs manner
manifested the wish that he should recognize him, he did not know
whether to make any allusion to the past, or wait until he had more
proof; besides, although sure it was he who had been in the box the
previous evening, he could not be equally positive that this was the
man he had seen at the Colosseum. He resolved, therefore, to let things
take their course without making any direct overture to the count.
Moreover, he had this advantage, he was master of the countГўВҖВҷs secret,
while the count had no hold on Franz, who had nothing to conceal.
However, he resolved to lead the conversation to a subject which might
possibly clear up his doubts.

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңyou have offered us places in your carriage, and at
your windows in the Rospoli Palace. Can you tell us where we can obtain
a sight of the Piazza del Popolo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the count negligently, looking attentively at Morcerf, ГўВҖВңis
there not something like an execution upon the Piazza del Popolo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, finding that the count was coming to the point
he wished.

ГўВҖВңStay, I think I told my steward yesterday to attend to this; perhaps I
can render you this slight service also.ГўВҖВқ

He extended his hand, and rang the bell thrice.

ГўВҖВңDid you ever occupy yourself,ГўВҖВқ said he to Franz, ГўВҖВңwith the employment
of time and the means of simplifying the summoning your servants? I
have. When I ring once, it is for my valet; twice, for my majordomo;
thrice, for my steward,ГўВҖВ”thus I do not waste a minute or a word. Here he
is.ГўВҖВқ

A man of about forty-five or fifty entered, exactly resembling the
smuggler who had introduced Franz into the cavern; but he did not
appear to recognize him. It was evident he had his orders.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyou have procured me windows
looking on the Piazza del Popolo, as I ordered you yesterday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, excellency,ГўВҖВқ returned the steward; ГўВҖВңbut it was very late.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid I not tell you I wished for one?ГўВҖВқ replied the count, frowning.

ГўВҖВңAnd your excellency has one, which was let to Prince Lobanieff; but I
was obliged to pay a hundredГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat will doГўВҖВ”that will do, Monsieur Bertuccio; spare these gentlemen
all such domestic arrangements. You have the window, that is
sufficient. Give orders to the coachman; and be in readiness on the
stairs to conduct us to it.ГўВҖВқ

The steward bowed, and was about to quit the room.

ГўВҖВңAh!ГўВҖВқ continued the count, ГўВҖВңbe good enough to ask Pastrini if he has
received the _tavoletta_, and if he can send us an account of the
execution.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is no need to do that,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, taking out his tablets; ГўВҖВңfor
I saw the account, and copied it down.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, you can retire, M. Bertuccio; I need you no longer. Let us
know when breakfast is ready. These gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ added he, turning to
the two friends, ГўВҖВңwill, I trust, do me the honor to breakfast with me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңwe shall abuse your kindness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all; on the contrary, you will give me great pleasure. You
will, one or other of you, perhaps both, return it to me at Paris. M.
Bertuccio, lay covers for three.ГўВҖВқ

He then took FranzГўВҖВҷs tablets out of his hand. ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWe announce,ГўВҖВҷ he read,
in the same tone with which he would have read a newspaper, ГўВҖВҳthat
today, the 23rd of February, will be executed Andrea Rondolo, guilty of
murder on the person of the respected and venerated Don CГғВ©sar Torlini,
canon of the church of St. John Lateran, and Peppino, called Rocca
Priori, convicted of complicity with the detestable bandit Luigi Vampa,
and the men of his band.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңHum! ГўВҖВҳThe first will be _mazzolato_, the second _decapitato_.ГўВҖВҷ Yes,ГўВҖВқ
continued the count, ГўВҖВңit was at first arranged in this way; but I think
since yesterday some change has taken place in the order of the
ceremony.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally?ГўВҖВқ said Franz.

ГўВҖВңYes, I passed the evening at the Cardinal RospigliosiГўВҖВҷs, and there
mention was made of something like a pardon for one of the two men.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor Andrea Rondolo?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, carelessly; ГўВҖВңfor the other (he glanced at the
tablets as if to recall the name), for Peppino, called Rocca Priori.
You are thus deprived of seeing a man guillotined; but the _mazzolata_
still remains, which is a very curious punishment when seen for the
first time, and even the second, while the other, as you must know, is
very simple. The _mandaГғВҜa_6 never fails, never trembles, never strikes
thirty times ineffectually, like the soldier who beheaded the Count of
Chalais, and to whose tender mercy Richelieu had doubtless recommended
the sufferer. Ah,ГўВҖВқ added the count, in a contemptuous tone, ГўВҖВңdo not
tell me of European punishments, they are in the infancy, or rather the
old age, of cruelty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, count,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңone would think that you had studied
the different tortures of all the nations of the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere are, at least, few that I have not seen,ГўВҖВқ said the count coldly.

ГўВҖВңAnd you took pleasure in beholding these dreadful spectacles?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy first sentiment was horror, the second indifference, the third
curiosity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCuriosityГўВҖВ”that is a terrible word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so? In life, our greatest preoccupation is death; is it not then,
curious to study the different ways by which the soul and body can
part; and how, according to their different characters, temperaments,
and even the different customs of their countries, different persons
bear the transition from life to death, from existence to annihilation?
As for myself, I can assure you of one thing,ГўВҖВ”the more men you see die,
the easier it becomes to die yourself; and in my opinion, death may be
a torture, but it is not an expiation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not quite understand you,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz; ГўВҖВңpray explain your
meaning, for you excite my curiosity to the highest pitch.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said the count, and deep hatred mounted to his face, as the
blood would to the face of any other. ГўВҖВңIf a man had by unheard-of and
excruciating tortures destroyed your father, your mother, your
betrothed,ГўВҖВ”a being who, when torn from you, left a desolation, a wound
that never closes, in your breast,ГўВҖВ”do you think the reparation that
society gives you is sufficient when it interposes the knife of the
guillotine between the base of the occiput and the trapezal muscles of
the murderer, and allows him who has caused us years of moral
sufferings to escape with a few moments of physical pain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I know,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңthat human justice is insufficient to
console us; she can give blood in return for blood, that is all; but
you must demand from her only what it is in her power to grant.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will put another case to you,ГўВҖВқ continued the count; ГўВҖВңthat where
society, attacked by the death of a person, avenges death by death. But
are there not a thousand tortures by which a man may be made to suffer
without society taking the least cognizance of them, or offering him
even the insufficient means of vengeance, of which we have just spoken?
Are there not crimes for which the impalement of the Turks, the augers
of the Persians, the stake and the brand of the Iroquois Indians, are
inadequate tortures, and which are unpunished by society? Answer me, do
not these crimes exist?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ answered Franz; ГўВҖВңand it is to punish them that duelling is
tolerated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, duelling,ГўВҖВқ cried the count; ГўВҖВңa pleasant manner, upon my soul, of
arriving at your end when that end is vengeance! A man has carried off
your mistress, a man has seduced your wife, a man has dishonored your
daughter; he has rendered the whole life of one who had the right to
expect from Heaven that portion of happiness God has promised to
everyone of his creatures, an existence of misery and infamy; and you
think you are avenged because you send a ball through the head, or pass
a sword through the breast, of that man who has planted madness in your
brain, and despair in your heart. And remember, moreover, that it is
often he who comes off victorious from the strife, absolved of all
crime in the eyes of the world. No, no,ГўВҖВқ continued the count, ГўВҖВңhad I to
avenge myself, it is not thus I would take revenge.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you disapprove of duelling? You would not fight a duel?ГўВҖВқ asked
Albert in his turn, astonished at this strange theory.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңunderstand me, I would fight a duel for
a trifle, for an insult, for a blow; and the more so that, thanks to my
skill in all bodily exercises, and the indifference to danger I have
gradually acquired, I should be almost certain to kill my man. Oh, I
would fight for such a cause; but in return for a slow, profound,
eternal torture, I would give back the same, were it possible; an eye
for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, as the Orientalists say,ГўВҖВ”our masters
in everything,ГўВҖВ”those favored creatures who have formed for themselves a
life of dreams and a paradise of realities.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Franz to the count, ГўВҖВңwith this theory, which renders you at
once judge and executioner of your own cause, it would be difficult to
adopt a course that would forever prevent your falling under the power
of the law. Hatred is blind, rage carries you away; and he who pours
out vengeance runs the risk of tasting a bitter draught.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, if he be poor and inexperienced, not if he be rich and skilful;
besides, the worst that could happen to him would be the punishment of
which we have already spoken, and which the philanthropic French
Revolution has substituted for being torn to pieces by horses or broken
on the wheel. What matters this punishment, as long as he is avenged?
On my word, I almost regret that in all probability this miserable
Peppino will not be beheaded, as you might have had an opportunity then
of seeing how short a time the punishment lasts, and whether it is
worth even mentioning; but, really this is a most singular conversation
for the Carnival, gentlemen; how did it arise? Ah, I recollect, you
asked for a place at my window; you shall have it; but let us first sit
down to table, for here comes the servant to inform us that breakfast
is ready.ГўВҖВқ

As he spoke, a servant opened one of the four doors of the apartment,
saying:

ГўВҖВң_Al suo commodo!_ГўВҖВқ

The two young men arose and entered the breakfast-room.

During the meal, which was excellent, and admirably served, Franz
looked repeatedly at Albert, in order to observe the impressions which
he doubted not had been made on him by the words of their entertainer;
but whether with his usual carelessness he had paid but little
attention to him, whether the explanation of the Count of Monte Cristo
with regard to duelling had satisfied him, or whether the events which
Franz knew of had had their effect on him alone, he remarked that his
companion did not pay the least regard to them, but on the contrary ate
like a man who for the last four or five months had been condemned to
partake of Italian cookeryГўВҖВ”that is, the worst in the world.

As for the count, he just touched the dishes; he seemed to fulfil the
duties of a host by sitting down with his guests, and awaited their
departure to be served with some strange or more delicate food. This
brought back to Franz, in spite of himself, the recollection of the
terror with which the count had inspired the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”, and her firm
conviction that the man in the opposite box was a vampire.

At the end of the breakfast Franz took out his watch.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңwhat are you doing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must excuse us, count,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, ГўВҖВңbut we have still much to
do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat may that be?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe have no masks, and it is absolutely necessary to procure them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not concern yourself about that; we have, I think, a private room
in the Piazza del Popolo; I will have whatever costumes you choose
brought to us, and you can dress there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAfter the execution?ГўВҖВқ cried Franz.

ГўВҖВңBefore or after, whichever you please.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOpposite the scaffold?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe scaffold forms part of the _fГғВӘte_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount, I have reflected on the matter,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңI thank you for
your courtesy, but I shall content myself with accepting a place in
your carriage and at your window at the Rospoli Palace, and I leave you
at liberty to dispose of my place at the Piazza del Popolo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I warn you, you will lose a very curious sight,ГўВҖВқ returned the
count.

ГўВҖВңYou will describe it to me,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңand the recital from your
lips will make as great an impression on me as if I had witnessed it. I
have more than once intended witnessing an execution, but I have never
been able to make up my mind; and you, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI,ГўВҖВқ replied the viscount,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI saw Castaing executed, but I think I was
rather intoxicated that day, for I had quitted college the same
morning, and we had passed the previous night at a tavern.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBesides, it is no reason because you have not seen an execution at
Paris, that you should not see one anywhere else; when you travel, it
is to see everything. Think what a figure you will make when you are
asked, ГўВҖВҳHow do they execute at Rome?ГўВҖВҷ and you reply, ГўВҖВҳI do not know!ГўВҖВҷ
And, besides, they say that the culprit is an infamous scoundrel, who
killed with a log of wood a worthy canon who had brought him up like
his own son. _Diable!_ when a churchman is killed, it should be with a
different weapon than a log, especially when he has behaved like a
father. If you went to Spain, would you not see the bull-fights? Well,
suppose it is a bull-fight you are going to see? Recollect the ancient
Romans of the Circus, and the sports where they killed three hundred
lions and a hundred men. Think of the eighty thousand applauding
spectators, the sage matrons who took their daughters, and the charming
Vestals who made with the thumb of their white hands the fatal sign
that said, ГўВҖВҳCome, despatch the dying.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall you go, then, Albert?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz.

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, yes; like you, I hesitated, but the countГўВҖВҷs eloquence
decides me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us go, then,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңsince you wish it; but on our way to
the Piazza del Popolo, I wish to pass through the Corso. Is this
possible, count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn foot, yes, in a carriage, no.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will go on foot, then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it important that you should go that way?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, there is something I wish to see.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, we will go by the Corso. We will send the carriage to wait for
us on the Piazza del Popolo, by the Via del Babuino, for I shall be
glad to pass, myself, through the Corso, to see if some orders I have
given have been executed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcellency,ГўВҖВқ said a servant, opening the door, ГўВҖВңa man in the dress of
a penitent wishes to speak to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! yes,ГўВҖВқ returned the count, ГўВҖВңI know who he is, gentlemen; will you
return to the salon? you will find good cigars on the centre table. I
will be with you directly.ГўВҖВқ

The young men rose and returned into the salon, while the count, again
apologizing, left by another door. Albert, who was a great smoker, and
who had considered it no small sacrifice to be deprived of the cigars
of the CafГғВ© de Paris, approached the table, and uttered a cry of joy at
perceiving some veritable _puros_.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ asked Franz, ГўВҖВңwhat think you of the Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do I think?ГўВҖВқ said Albert, evidently surprised at such a question
from his companion; ГўВҖВңI think he is a delightful fellow, who does the
honors of his table admirably; who has travelled much, read much, is,
like Brutus, of the Stoic school, and moreover,ГўВҖВқ added he, sending a
volume of smoke up towards the ceiling, ГўВҖВңthat he has excellent cigars.ГўВҖВқ

Such was AlbertГўВҖВҷs opinion of the count, and as Franz well knew that
Albert professed never to form an opinion except upon long reflection,
he made no attempt to change it.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdid you observe one very singular thing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow attentively he looked at you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Albert reflected. ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ replied he, sighing, ГўВҖВңthat is not very
surprising; I have been more than a year absent from Paris, and my
clothes are of a most antiquated cut; the count takes me for a
provincial. The first opportunity you have, undeceive him, I beg, and
tell him I am nothing of the kind.ГўВҖВқ

Franz smiled; an instant after the count entered.

ГўВҖВңI am now quite at your service, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңThe carriage is
going one way to the Piazza del Popolo, and we will go another; and, if
you please, by the Corso. Take some more of these cigars, M. de
Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith all my heart,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert; ГўВҖВңItalian cigars are horrible.
When you come to Paris, I will return all this.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will not refuse; I intend going there soon, and since you allow me,
I will pay you a visit. Come, we have not any time to lose, it is
half-past twelveГўВҖВ”let us set off.ГўВҖВқ

All three descended; the coachman received his masterГўВҖВҷs orders, and
drove down the Via del Babuino. While the three gentlemen walked along
the Piazza di Spagna and the Via Frattina, which led directly between
the Fiano and Rospoli palaces, FranzГўВҖВҷs attention was directed towards
the windows of that last palace, for he had not forgotten the signal
agreed upon between the man in the mantle and the Transtevere peasant.

ГўВҖВңWhich are your windows?ГўВҖВқ asked he of the count, with as much
indifference as he could assume.

ГўВҖВңThe three last,ГўВҖВқ returned he, with a negligence evidently unaffected,
for he could not imagine with what intention the question was put.

Franz glanced rapidly towards the three windows. The side windows were
hung with yellow damask, and the centre one with white damask and a red
cross. The man in the mantle had kept his promise to the Transteverin,
and there could now be no doubt that he was the count.

The three windows were still untenanted. Preparations were making on
every side; chairs were placed, scaffolds were raised, and windows were
hung with flags. The masks could not appear; the carriages could not
move about; but the masks were visible behind the windows, the
carriages, and the doors.

Franz, Albert, and the count continued to descend the Corso. As they
approached the Piazza del Popolo, the crowd became more dense, and
above the heads of the multitude two objects were visible: the obelisk,
surmounted by a cross, which marks the centre of the square, and in
front of the obelisk, at the point where the three streets, del
Babuino, del Corso, and di Ripetta, meet, the two uprights of the
scaffold, between which glittered the curved knife of the _mandaГғВҜa_.

At the corner of the street they met the countГўВҖВҷs steward, who was
awaiting his master. The window, let at an exorbitant price, which the
count had doubtless wished to conceal from his guests, was on the
second floor of the great palace, situated between the Via del Babuino
and the Monte Pincio. It consisted, as we have said, of a small
dressing-room, opening into a bedroom, and, when the door of
communication was shut, the inmates were quite alone. On chairs were
laid elegant masquerade costumes of blue and white satin.

20167m



ГўВҖВңAs you left the choice of your costumes to me,ГўВҖВқ said the count to the
two friends, ГўВҖВңI have had these brought, as they will be the most worn
this year; and they are most suitable, on account of the _confetti_
(sweetmeats), as they do not show the flour.ГўВҖВқ

Franz heard the words of the count but imperfectly, and he perhaps did
not fully appreciate this new attention to their wishes; for he was
wholly absorbed by the spectacle that the Piazza del Popolo presented,
and by the terrible instrument that was in the centre.

It was the first time Franz had ever seen a guillotine,ГўВҖВ”we say
guillotine, because the Roman _mandaГғВҜa_ is formed on almost the same
model as the French instrument.7 The knife, which is shaped like a
crescent, that cuts with the convex side, falls from a less height, and
that is all the difference.

Two men, seated on the movable plank on which the victim is laid, were
eating their breakfasts, while waiting for the criminal. Their repast
consisted apparently of bread and sausages. One of them lifted the
plank, took out a flask of wine, drank some, and then passed it to his
companion. These two men were the executionerГўВҖВҷs assistants.

At this sight Franz felt the perspiration start forth upon his brow.

The prisoners, transported the previous evening from the Carceri Nuove
to the little church of Santa Maria del Popolo, had passed the night,
each accompanied by two priests, in a chapel closed by a grating,
before which were two sentinels, who were relieved at intervals. A
double line of carbineers, placed on each side of the door of the
church, reached to the scaffold, and formed a circle around it, leaving
a path about ten feet wide, and around the guillotine a space of nearly
a hundred feet.

All the rest of the square was paved with heads. Many women held their
infants on their shoulders, and thus the children had the best view.
The Monte Pincio seemed a vast amphitheatre filled with spectators; the
balconies of the two churches at the corner of the Via del Babuino and
the Via di Ripetta were crammed; the steps even seemed a parti-colored
sea, that was impelled towards the portico; every niche in the wall
held its living statue. What the count said was trueГўВҖВ”the most curious
spectacle in life is that of death.

And yet, instead of the silence and the solemnity demanded by the
occasion, laughter and jests arose from the crowd. It was evident that
the execution was, in the eyes of the people, only the commencement of
the Carnival.

Suddenly the tumult ceased, as if by magic, and the doors of the church
opened. A brotherhood of penitents, clothed from head to foot in robes
of gray sackcloth, with holes for the eyes, and holding in their hands
lighted tapers, appeared first; the chief marched at the head.

20169m



Behind the penitents came a man of vast stature and proportions. He was
naked, with the exception of cloth drawers at the left side of which
hung a large knife in a sheath, and he bore on his right shoulder a
heavy iron sledge-hammer.

This man was the executioner.

He had, moreover, sandals bound on his feet by cords.

Behind the executioner came, in the order in which they were to die,
first Peppino and then Andrea. Each was accompanied by two priests.
Neither had his eyes bandaged.

Peppino walked with a firm step, doubtless aware of what awaited him.
Andrea was supported by two priests. Each of them, from time to time,
kissed the crucifix a confessor held out to them.

At this sight alone Franz felt his legs tremble under him. He looked at
AlbertГўВҖВ”he was as white as his shirt, and mechanically cast away his
cigar, although he had not half smoked it. The count alone seemed
unmovedГўВҖВ”nay, more, a slight color seemed striving to rise in his pale
cheeks. His nostrils dilated like those of a wild beast that scents its
prey, and his lips, half opened, disclosed his white teeth, small and
sharp like those of a jackal. And yet his features wore an expression
of smiling tenderness, such as Franz had never before witnessed in
them; his black eyes especially were full of kindness and pity.

However, the two culprits advanced, and as they approached their faces
became visible. Peppino was a handsome young man of four or
five-and-twenty, bronzed by the sun; he carried his head erect, and
seemed on the watch to see on which side his liberator would appear.
Andrea was short and fat; his visage, marked with brutal cruelty, did
not indicate age; he might be thirty. In prison he had suffered his
beard to grow; his head fell on his shoulder, his legs bent beneath
him, and his movements were apparently automatic and unconscious.

ГўВҖВңI thought,ГўВҖВқ said Franz to the count, ГўВҖВңthat you told me there would be
but one execution.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI told you true,ГўВҖВқ replied he coldly.

ГўВҖВңAnd yet here are two culprits.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but only one of these two is about to die; the other has many
years to live.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf the pardon is to come, there is no time to lose.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd see, here it is,ГўВҖВқ said the count. At the moment when Peppino
reached the foot of the _mandaГғВҜa_, a priest arrived in some haste,
forced his way through the soldiers, and, advancing to the chief of the
brotherhood, gave him a folded paper. The piercing eye of Peppino had
noticed all. The chief took the paper, unfolded it, and, raising his
hand, ГўВҖВңHeaven be praised, and his Holiness also,ГўВҖВқ said he in a loud
voice; ГўВҖВңhere is a pardon for one of the prisoners!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA pardon!ГўВҖВқ cried the people with one voice; ГўВҖВңa pardon!ГўВҖВқ

At this cry Andrea raised his head.

ГўВҖВңPardon for whom?ГўВҖВқ cried he.

Peppino remained breathless.

ГўВҖВңA pardon for Peppino, called Rocca Priori,ГўВҖВқ said the principal friar.
And he passed the paper to the officer commanding the carbineers, who
read and returned it to him.

ГўВҖВңFor Peppino!ГўВҖВқ cried Andrea, who seemed roused from the torpor in which
he had been plunged. ГўВҖВңWhy for him and not for me? We ought to die
together. I was promised he should die with me. You have no right to
put me to death alone. I will not die aloneГўВҖВ”I will not!ГўВҖВқ

And he broke from the priests struggling and raving like a wild beast,
and striving desperately to break the cords that bound his hands. The
executioner made a sign, and his two assistants leaped from the
scaffold and seized him.

ГўВҖВңWhat is going on?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz of the count; for, as all the talk was
in the Roman dialect, he had not perfectly understood it.

ГўВҖВңDo you not see?ГўВҖВқ returned the count, ГўВҖВңthat this human creature who is
about to die is furious that his fellow-sufferer does not perish with
him? and, were he able, he would rather tear him to pieces with his
teeth and nails than let him enjoy the life he himself is about to be
deprived of. Oh, man, manГўВҖВ”race of crocodiles,ГўВҖВқ cried the count,
extending his clenched hands towards the crowd, ГўВҖВңhow well do I
recognize you there, and that at all times you are worthy of
yourselves!ГўВҖВқ

Meanwhile Andrea and the two executioners were struggling on the
ground, and he kept exclaiming, ГўВҖВңHe ought to die!ГўВҖВ”he shall die!ГўВҖВ”I will
not die alone!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLook, look,ГўВҖВқ cried the count, seizing the young menГўВҖВҷs hands; ГўВҖВңlook,
for on my soul it is curious. Here is a man who had resigned himself to
his fate, who was going to the scaffold to dieГўВҖВ”like a coward, it is
true, but he was about to die without resistance. Do you know what gave
him strength? do you know what consoled him? It was, that another
partook of his punishmentГўВҖВ”that another partook of his anguishГўВҖВ”that
another was to die before him! Lead two sheep to the butcherГўВҖВҷs, two
oxen to the slaughterhouse, and make one of them understand that his
companion will not die; the sheep will bleat for pleasure, the ox will
bellow with joy. But manГўВҖВ”man, whom God created in his own imageГўВҖВ”man,
upon whom God has laid his first, his sole commandment, to love his
neighborГўВҖВ”man, to whom God has given a voice to express his
thoughtsГўВҖВ”what is his first cry when he hears his fellow-man is saved? A
blasphemy. Honor to man, this masterpiece of nature, this king of the
creation!ГўВҖВқ

And the count burst into a laugh; a terrible laugh, that showed he must
have suffered horribly to be able thus to laugh.

However, the struggle still continued, and it was dreadful to witness.
The two assistants carried Andrea up to the scaffold; the people all
took part against Andrea, and twenty thousand voices cried, ГўВҖВңPut him to
death! put him to death!ГўВҖВқ

Franz sprang back, but the count seized his arm, and held him before
the window.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you doing?ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңDo you pity him? If you heard the cry
of ГўВҖВҳMad dog!ГўВҖВҷ you would take your gunГўВҖВ”you would unhesitatingly shoot
the poor beast, who, after all, was only guilty of having been bitten
by another dog. And yet you pity a man who, without being bitten by one
of his race, has yet murdered his benefactor; and who, now unable to
kill anyone, because his hands are bound, wishes to see his companion
in captivity perish. No, noГўВҖВ”look, look!ГўВҖВқ

20172m



The recommendation was needless. Franz was fascinated by the horrible
spectacle.

The two assistants had borne Andrea to the scaffold, and there, in
spite of his struggles, his bites, and his cries, had forced him to his
knees. During this time the executioner had raised his mace, and signed
to them to get out of the way; the criminal strove to rise, but, ere he
had time, the mace fell on his left temple. A dull and heavy sound was
heard, and the man dropped like an ox on his face, and then turned over
on his back.

The executioner let fall his mace, drew his knife, and with one stroke
opened his throat, and mounting on his stomach, stamped violently on it
with his feet. At every stroke a jet of blood sprang from the wound.

This time Franz could contain himself no longer, but sank, half
fainting, into a seat.

Albert, with his eyes closed, was standing grasping the
window-curtains.

The count was erect and triumphant, like the Avenging Angel!



 Chapter 36. The Carnival at Rome

When Franz recovered his senses, he saw Albert drinking a glass of
water, of which, to judge from his pallor, he stood in great need; and
the count, who was assuming his masquerade costume. He glanced
mechanically towards the piazzaГўВҖВ”the scene was wholly changed; scaffold,
executioners, victims, all had disappeared; only the people remained,
full of noise and excitement. The bell of Monte Citorio, which only
sounds on the popeГўВҖВҷs decease and the opening of the Carnival, was
ringing a joyous peal.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ asked he of the count, ГўВҖВңwhat has, then, happened?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңonly, as you see, the Carnival has
commenced. Make haste and dress yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn fact,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңthis horrible scene has passed away like a
dream.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is but a dream, a nightmare, that has disturbed you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, that I have suffered; but the culprit?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is a dream also; only he has remained asleep, while you have
awakened; and who knows which of you is the most fortunate?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut PeppinoГўВҖВ”what has become of him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPeppino is a lad of sense, who, unlike most men, who are happy in
proportion as they are noticed, was delighted to see that the general
attention was directed towards his companion. He profited by this
distraction to slip away among the crowd, without even thanking the
worthy priests who accompanied him. Decidedly man is an ungrateful and
egotistical animal. But dress yourself; see, M. de Morcerf sets you the
example.ГўВҖВқ

Albert was drawing on the satin pantaloon over his black trousers and
varnished boots.

ГўВҖВңWell, Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңdo you feel much inclined to join the
revels? Come, answer frankly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, no,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert. ГўВҖВңBut I am really glad to have seen
such a sight; and I understand what the count saidГўВҖВ”that when you have
once habituated yourself to a similar spectacle, it is the only one
that causes you any emotion.ГўВҖВқ

20175m



ГўВҖВңWithout reflecting that this is the only moment in which you can study
character,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңon the steps of the scaffold death tears
off the mask that has been worn through life, and the real visage is
disclosed. It must be allowed that Andrea was not very handsome, the
hideous scoundrel! Come, dress yourselves, gentlemen, dress
yourselves.ГўВҖВқ

Franz felt it would be ridiculous not to follow his two companionsГўВҖВҷ
example. He assumed his costume, and fastened on the mask that scarcely
equalled the pallor of his own face. Their toilet finished, they
descended; the carriage awaited them at the door, filled with
sweetmeats and bouquets. They fell into the line of carriages.

It is difficult to form an idea of the perfect change that had taken
place. Instead of the spectacle of gloomy and silent death, the Piazza
del Popolo presented a spectacle of gay and noisy mirth and revelry. A
crowd of masks flowed in from all sides, emerging from the doors,
descending from the windows. From every street and every corner drove
carriages filled with clowns, harlequins, dominoes, mummers,
pantomimists, Transteverins, knights, and peasants, screaming,
fighting, gesticulating, throwing eggs filled with flour, confetti,
nosegays, attacking, with their sarcasms and their missiles, friends
and foes, companions and strangers, indiscriminately, and no one took
offence, or did anything but laugh.

Franz and Albert were like men who, to drive away a violent sorrow,
have recourse to wine, and who, as they drink and become intoxicated,
feel a thick veil drawn between the past and the present. They saw, or
rather continued to see, the image of what they had witnessed; but
little by little the general vertigo seized them, and they felt
themselves obliged to take part in the noise and confusion.

A handful of confetti that came from a neighboring carriage, and which,
while it covered Morcerf and his two companions with dust, pricked his
neck and that portion of his face uncovered by his mask like a hundred
pins, incited him to join in the general combat, in which all the masks
around him were engaged. He rose in his turn, and seizing handfuls of
confetti and sweetmeats, with which the carriage was filled, cast them
with all the force and skill he was master of.

20177m



The strife had fairly begun, and the recollection of what they had seen
half an hour before was gradually effaced from the young menГўВҖВҷs minds,
so much were they occupied by the gay and glittering procession they
now beheld.

As for the Count of Monte Cristo, he had never for an instant shown any
appearance of having been moved. Imagine the large and splendid Corso,
bordered from one end to the other with lofty palaces, with their
balconies hung with carpets, and their windows with flags. At these
balconies are three hundred thousand spectatorsГўВҖВ”Romans, Italians,
strangers from all parts of the world, the united aristocracy of birth,
wealth, and genius. Lovely women, yielding to the influence of the
scene, bend over their balconies, or lean from their windows, and
shower down confetti, which are returned by bouquets; the air seems
darkened with the falling confetti and flying flowers. In the streets
the lively crowd is dressed in the most fantastic costumesГўВҖВ”gigantic
cabbages walk gravely about, buffaloesГўВҖВҷ heads bellow from menГўВҖВҷs
shoulders, dogs walk on their hind legs; in the midst of all this a
mask is lifted, and, as in CallotГўВҖВҷs Temptation of St. Anthony, a lovely
face is exhibited, which we would fain follow, but from which we are
separated by troops of fiends. This will give a faint idea of the
Carnival at Rome.

At the second turn, the count stopped the carriage, and requested
permission to withdraw, leaving the vehicle at their disposal. Franz
looked upГўВҖВ”they were opposite the Rospoli Palace. At the centre window,
the one hung with white damask with a red cross, was a blue domino,
beneath which FranzГўВҖВҷs imagination easily pictured the beautiful Greek
of the Argentina.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said the count, springing out, ГўВҖВңwhen you are tired of
being actors, and wish to become spectators of this scene, you know you
have places at my windows. In the meantime, dispose of my coachman, my
carriage, and my servants.ГўВҖВқ

We have forgotten to mention, that the countГўВҖВҷs coachman was attired in
a bear-skin, exactly resembling OdryГўВҖВҷs in _The Bear and the Pasha_; and
the two footmen behind were dressed up as green monkeys, with spring
masks, with which they made grimaces at everyone who passed.

Franz thanked the count for his attention. As for Albert, he was busily
occupied throwing bouquets at a carriage full of Roman peasants that
was passing near him. Unfortunately for him, the line of carriages
moved on again, and while he descended the Piazza del Popolo, the other
ascended towards the Palazzo di Venezia.

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ said he to Franz; ГўВҖВңyou did not see?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere,ГўВҖВ”that calash filled with Roman peasants.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I am convinced they are all charming women.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow unfortunate that you were masked, Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Franz; ГўВҖВңhere was
an opportunity of making up for past disappointments.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ replied he, half laughing, half serious; ГўВҖВңI hope the Carnival
will not pass without some amends in one shape or the other.ГўВҖВқ

But, in spite of AlbertГўВҖВҷs hope, the day passed unmarked by any
incident, excepting two or three encounters with the carriage full of
Roman peasants. At one of these encounters, accidentally or purposely,
AlbertГўВҖВҷs mask fell off. He instantly rose and cast the remainder of the
bouquets into the carriage. Doubtless one of the charming females
Albert had detected beneath their coquettish disguise was touched by
his gallantry; for, as the carriage of the two friends passed her, she
threw a bunch of violets. Albert seized it, and as Franz had no reason
to suppose it was meant for him, he suffered Albert to retain it.
Albert placed it in his button-hole, and the carriage went triumphantly
on.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Franz to him; ГўВҖВңthere is the beginning of an adventure.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLaugh if you pleaseГўВҖВ”I really think so. So I will not abandon this
bouquet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu_,ГўВҖВқ returned Franz, laughing, ГўВҖВңin token of your ingratitude.ГўВҖВқ

The jest, however, soon appeared to become earnest; for when Albert and
Franz again encountered the carriage with the _contadini_, the one who
had thrown the violets to Albert, clapped her hands when she beheld
them in his button-hole.

ГўВҖВңBravo, bravo,ГўВҖВқ said Franz; ГўВҖВңthings go wonderfully. Shall I leave you?
Perhaps you would prefer being alone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied he; ГўВҖВңI will not be caught like a fool at a first
disclosure by a rendezvous under the clock, as they say at the
opera-balls. If the fair peasant wishes to carry matters any further,
we shall find her, or rather, she will find us tomorrow; then she will
give me some sign or other, and I shall know what I have to do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my word,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңyou are as wise as Nestor and prudent as
Ulysses, and your fair Circe must be very skilful or very powerful if
she succeed in changing you into a beast of any kind.ГўВҖВқ

Albert was right; the fair unknown had resolved, doubtless, to carry
the intrigue no farther; for although the young men made several more
turns, they did not again see the calash, which had turned up one of
the neighboring streets. Then they returned to the Rospoli Palace; but
the count and the blue domino had also disappeared; the two windows,
hung with yellow damask, were still occupied by the persons whom the
count had invited.

At this moment the same bell that had proclaimed the beginning of the
mascherata sounded the retreat. The file on the Corso broke the line,
and in a second all the carriages had disappeared. Franz and Albert
were opposite the Via delle Muratte; the coachman, without saying a
word, drove up it, passed along the Piazza di Spagna and the Rospoli
Palace and stopped at the door of the hotel. Signor Pastrini came to
the door to receive his guests.

Franz hastened to inquire after the count, and to express regret that
he had not returned in sufficient time; but Pastrini reassured him by
saying that the Count of Monte Cristo had ordered a second carriage for
himself, and that it had gone at four oГўВҖВҷclock to fetch him from the
Rospoli Palace.

The count had, moreover, charged him to offer the two friends the key
of his box at the Argentina. Franz questioned Albert as to his
intentions; but Albert had great projects to put into execution before
going to the theatre; and instead of making any answer, he inquired if
Signor Pastrini could procure him a tailor.

ГўВҖВңA tailor,ГўВҖВқ said the host; ГўВҖВңand for what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo make us between now and tomorrow two Roman peasant costumes,ГўВҖВқ
returned Albert.

The host shook his head.

ГўВҖВңTo make you two costumes between now and tomorrow? I ask your
excellenciesГўВҖВҷ pardon, but this is quite a French demand; for the next
week you will not find a single tailor who would consent to sew six
buttons on a waistcoat if you paid him a crown a piece for each
button.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I must give up the idea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; we have them ready-made. Leave all to me; and tomorrow, when you
awake, you shall find a collection of costumes with which you will be
satisfied.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңleave all to our host; he has already
proved himself full of resources; let us dine quietly, and afterwards
go and see _lГўВҖВҷItalienne ГғВ  Alger!_

ГўВҖВңAgreed,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert; ГўВҖВңbut remember, Signor Pastrini, that both my
friend and myself attach the greatest importance to having tomorrow the
costumes we have asked for.ГўВҖВқ

The host again assured them they might rely on him, and that their
wishes should be attended to; upon which Franz and Albert mounted to
their apartments, and proceeded to disencumber themselves of their
costumes. Albert, as he took off his dress, carefully preserved the
bunch of violets; it was his token reserved for the morrow.

The two friends sat down to table; but they could not refrain from
remarking the difference between the Count of Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs table and
that of Signor Pastrini. Truth compelled Franz, in spite of the dislike
he seemed to have taken to the count, to confess that the advantage was
not on PastriniГўВҖВҷs side. During dessert, the servant inquired at what
time they wished for the carriage. Albert and Franz looked at each
other, fearing really to abuse the countГўВҖВҷs kindness. The servant
understood them.

ГўВҖВңHis excellency the Count of Monte Cristo had,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңgiven
positive orders that the carriage was to remain at their lordshipsГўВҖВҷ
orders all day, and they could therefore dispose of it without fear of
indiscretion.ГўВҖВқ

They resolved to profit by the countГўВҖВҷs courtesy, and ordered the horses
to be harnessed, while they substituted evening dress for that which
they had on, and which was somewhat the worse for the numerous combats
they had sustained.

20181m



This precaution taken, they went to the theatre, and installed
themselves in the countГўВҖВҷs box. During the first act, the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”
entered. Her first look was at the box where she had seen the count the
previous evening, so that she perceived Franz and Albert in the place
of the very person concerning whom she had expressed so strange an
opinion to Franz. Her opera-glass was so fixedly directed towards them,
that Franz saw it would be cruel not to satisfy her curiosity; and,
availing himself of one of the privileges of the spectators of the
Italian theatres, who use their boxes to hold receptions, the two
friends went to pay their respects to the countess. Scarcely had they
entered, when she motioned to Franz to assume the seat of honor.
Albert, in his turn, sat behind.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said she, hardly giving Franz time to sit down, ГўВҖВңit seems you
have nothing better to do than to make the acquaintance of this new
Lord Ruthven, and you are already the best friends in the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWithout being so far advanced as that, my dear countess,ГўВҖВқ returned
Franz, ГўВҖВңI cannot deny that we have abused his good nature all day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll day?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; this morning we breakfasted with him; we rode in his carriage all
day, and now we have taken possession of his box.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know him, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and no.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is a long story.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell it to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt would frighten you too much.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the more reason.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least wait until the story has a conclusion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well; I prefer complete histories; but tell me how you made his
acquaintance? Did anyone introduce you to him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; it was he who introduced himself to us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLast night, after we left you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThrough what medium?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe very prosaic one of our landlord.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is staying, then, at the HГғВҙtel de Londres with you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot only in the same hotel, but on the same floor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is his name; for, of course, you know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is not a family name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, it is the name of the island he has purchased.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd he is a count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA Tuscan count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, we must put up with that,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, who was herself
from one of the oldest Venetian families. ГўВҖВңWhat sort of a man is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAsk the Vicomte de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou hear, M. de Morcerf, I am referred to you,ГўВҖВқ said the countess.

ГўВҖВңWe should be very hard to please, madam,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert, ГўВҖВңdid we not
think him delightful. A friend of ten yearsГўВҖВҷ standing could not have
done more for us, or with a more perfect courtesy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ observed the countess, smiling, ГўВҖВңI see my vampire is only some
millionaire, who has taken the appearance of Lara in order to avoid
being confounded with M. de Rothschild; and you have seen her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHer?ГўВҖВқ

20183m



ГўВҖВңThe beautiful Greek of yesterday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; we heard, I think, the sound of her _guzla_, but she remained
perfectly invisible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen you say invisible,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Albert, ГўВҖВңit is only to keep up
the mystery; for whom do you take the blue domino at the window with
the white curtains?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere was this window with white hangings?ГўВҖВқ asked the countess.

ГўВҖВңAt the Rospoli Palace.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe count had three windows at the Rospoli Palace?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. Did you pass through the Corso?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, did you notice two windows hung with yellow damask, and one with
white damask with a red cross? Those were the countГўВҖВҷs windows.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, he must be a nabob. Do you know what those three windows were
worth?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo or three hundred Roman crowns?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo or three thousand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe deuce!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes his island produce him such a revenue?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt does not bring him a bajocco.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen why did he purchase it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor a whim.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is an original, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn reality,ГўВҖВқ observed Albert, ГўВҖВңhe seemed to me somewhat eccentric;
were he at Paris, and a frequenter of the theatres, I should say he was
a poor devil literally mad. This morning he made two or three exits
worthy of Didier or Anthony.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment a fresh visitor entered, and, according to custom, Franz
gave up his seat to him. This circumstance had, moreover, the effect of
changing the conversation; an hour afterwards the two friends returned
to their hotel.

Signor Pastrini had already set about procuring their disguises for the
morrow; and he assured them that they would be perfectly satisfied. The
next morning, at nine oГўВҖВҷclock, he entered FranzГўВҖВҷs room, followed by a
tailor, who had eight or ten Roman peasant costumes on his arm; they
selected two exactly alike, and charged the tailor to sew on each of
their hats about twenty yards of ribbon, and to procure them two of the
long silk sashes of different colors with which the lower orders
decorate themselves on fГғВӘte days.

Albert was impatient to see how he looked in his new dressГўВҖВ”a jacket and
breeches of blue velvet, silk stockings with clocks, shoes with
buckles, and a silk waistcoat. This picturesque attire set him off to
great advantage; and when he had bound the scarf around his waist, and
when his hat, placed coquettishly on one side, let fall on his shoulder
a stream of ribbons, Franz was forced to confess that costume has much
to do with the physical superiority we accord to certain nations. The
Turks used to be so picturesque with their long and flowing robes, but
are they not now hideous with their blue frocks buttoned up to the
chin, and their red caps, which make them look like a bottle of wine
with a red seal? Franz complimented Albert, who looked at himself in
the glass with an unequivocal smile of satisfaction. They were thus
engaged when the Count of Monte Cristo entered.

20185m



ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңalthough a companion is agreeable, perfect
freedom is sometimes still more agreeable. I come to say that today,
and for the remainder of the Carnival, I leave the carriage entirely at
your disposal. The host will tell you I have three or four more, so
that you will not inconvenience me in any way. Make use of it, I pray
you, for your pleasure or your business.ГўВҖВқ

The young men wished to decline, but they could find no good reason for
refusing an offer which was so agreeable to them. The Count of Monte
Cristo remained a quarter of an hour with them, conversing on all
subjects with the greatest ease. He was, as we have already said,
perfectly well acquainted with the literature of all countries. A
glance at the walls of his salon proved to Franz and Albert that he was
a connoisseur of pictures. A few words he let fall showed them that he
was no stranger to the sciences, and he seemed much occupied with
chemistry. The two friends did not venture to return the count the
breakfast he had given them; it would have been too absurd to offer him
in exchange for his excellent table the very inferior one of Signor
Pastrini. They told him so frankly, and he received their excuses with
the air of a man who appreciated their delicacy. Albert was charmed
with the countГўВҖВҷs manners, and he was only prevented from recognizing
him for a perfect gentleman by reason of his varied knowledge.

The permission to do what he liked with the carriage pleased him above
all, for the fair peasants had appeared in a most elegant carriage the
preceding evening, and Albert was not sorry to be upon an equal footing
with them. At half-past one they descended, the coachman and footman
had put on their livery over their disguises, which gave them a more
ridiculous appearance than ever, and which gained them the applause of
Franz and Albert. Albert had fastened the faded bunch of violets to his
button-hole. At the first sound of the bell they hastened into the
Corso by the Via Vittoria.

At the second turn, a bunch of fresh violets, thrown from a carriage
filled with harlequins, indicated to Albert that, like himself and his
friend, the peasants had changed their costume also; and whether it was
the result of chance, or whether a similar feeling had possessed them
both, while he had donned their costume, they had assumed his.

Albert placed the fresh bouquet in his button-hole, but he kept the
faded one in his hand; and when he again met the calash, he raised it
to his lips, an action which seemed greatly to amuse not only the fair
lady who had thrown it, but her joyous companions also. The day was as
gay as the preceding one, perhaps even more animated and noisy; the
count appeared for an instant at his window, but when they again passed
he had disappeared. It is almost needless to say that the flirtation
between Albert and the fair peasant continued all day.

In the evening, on his return, Franz found a letter from the embassy,
informing him that he would have the honor of being received by his
holiness the next day. At each previous visit he had made to Rome, he
had solicited and obtained the same favor; and incited as much by a
religious feeling as by gratitude, he was unwilling to quit the capital
of the Christian world without laying his respectful homage at the feet
of one of St. PeterГўВҖВҷs successors who has set the rare example of all
the virtues. He did not then think of the Carnival, for in spite of his
condescension and touching kindness, one cannot incline oneГўВҖВҷs self
without awe before the venerable and noble old man called Gregory XVI.

On his return from the Vatican, Franz carefully avoided the Corso; he
brought away with him a treasure of pious thoughts, to which the mad
gayety of the maskers would have been profanation.

At ten minutes past five Albert entered overjoyed. The harlequin had
reassumed her peasantГўВҖВҷs costume, and as she passed she raised her mask.
She was charming. Franz congratulated Albert, who received his
congratulations with the air of a man conscious that they are merited.
He had recognized by certain unmistakable signs, that his fair
_incognita_ belonged to the aristocracy. He had made up his mind to
write to her the next day.

Franz remarked, while he gave these details, that Albert seemed to have
something to ask of him, but that he was unwilling to ask it. He
insisted upon it, declaring beforehand that he was willing to make any
sacrifice the other wished.

Albert let himself be pressed just as long as friendship required, and
then avowed to Franz that he would do him a great favor by allowing him
to occupy the carriage alone the next day. Albert attributed to FranzГўВҖВҷs
absence the extreme kindness of the fair peasant in raising her mask.
Franz was not sufficiently egotistical to stop Albert in the middle of
an adventure that promised to prove so agreeable to his curiosity and
so flattering to his vanity. He felt assured that the perfect
indiscretion of his friend would duly inform him of all that happened;
and as, during three years that he had travelled all over Italy, a
similar piece of good fortune had never fallen to his share, Franz was
by no means sorry to learn how to act on such an occasion. He therefore
promised Albert that he would content himself the morrow with
witnessing the Carnival from the windows of the Rospoli Palace.

The next morning he saw Albert pass and repass, holding an enormous
bouquet, which he doubtless meant to make the bearer of his amorous
epistle. This belief was changed into certainty when Franz saw the
bouquet (conspicuous by a circle of white camellias) in the hand of a
charming harlequin dressed in rose-colored satin.

The evening was no longer joy, but delirium. Albert nothing doubted but
that the fair unknown would reply in the same manner. Franz anticipated
his wishes by saying that the noise fatigued him, and that he should
pass the next day in writing and looking over his journal. Albert was
not deceived, for the next evening Franz saw him enter triumphantly
shaking a folded paper which he held by one corner.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwas I mistaken?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe has answered you!ГўВҖВқ cried Franz.

ГўВҖВңRead.ГўВҖВқ

This word was pronounced in a manner impossible to describe. Franz took
the letter, and read:

ГўВҖВңTuesday evening, at seven oГўВҖВҷclock, descend from your carriage opposite
the Via dei Pontefici, and follow the Roman peasant who snatches your
torch from you. When you arrive at the first step of the church of San
Giacomo, be sure to fasten a knot of rose-colored ribbons to the
shoulder of your harlequin costume, in order that you may be
recognized. Until then you will not see me. ГўВҖВ”Constancy and Discretion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ asked he, when Franz had finished, ГўВҖВңwhat do you think of that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think that the adventure is assuming a very agreeable appearance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think so, also,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert; ГўВҖВңand I very much fear you will go
alone to the Duke of BraccianoГўВҖВҷs ball.ГўВҖВқ

Franz and Albert had received that morning an invitation from the
celebrated Roman banker.

ГўВҖВңTake care, Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Franz. ГўВҖВңAll the nobility of Rome will be
present, and if your fair _incognita_ belong to the higher class of
society, she must go there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhether she goes there or not, my opinion is still the same,ГўВҖВқ returned
Albert. ГўВҖВңYou have read the letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know how imperfectly the women of the _mezzo cito_ are educated in
Italy?ГўВҖВқ (This is the name of the lower class.)

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, read the letter again. Look at the writing, and find if you can,
any blemish in the language or orthography.ГўВҖВқ The writing was, in
reality, charming, and the orthography irreproachable.

ГўВҖВңYou are born to good fortune,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, as he returned the letter.

ГўВҖВңLaugh as much as you will,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңI am in love.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou alarm me,ГўВҖВқ cried Franz. ГўВҖВңI see that I shall not only go alone to
the Duke of BraccianoГўВҖВҷs, but also return to Florence alone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf my unknown be as amiable as she is beautiful,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI
shall fix myself at Rome for six weeks, at least. I adore Rome, and I
have always had a great taste for archГғВҰology.ГўВҖВқ

20189m



ГўВҖВңCome, two or three more such adventures, and I do not despair of
seeing you a member of the Academy.ГўВҖВқ

Doubtless Albert was about to discuss seriously his right to the
academic chair when they were informed that dinner was ready. AlbertГўВҖВҷs
love had not taken away his appetite. He hastened with Franz to seat
himself, free to recommence the discussion after dinner. After dinner,
the Count of Monte Cristo was announced. They had not seen him for two
days. Signor Pastrini informed them that business had called him to
Civita Vecchia. He had started the previous evening, and had only
returned an hour since. He was charming. Whether he kept a watch over
himself, or whether by accident he did not sound the acrimonious chords
that in other circumstances had been touched, he was tonight like
everybody else.

The man was an enigma to Franz. The count must feel sure that Franz
recognized him; and yet he had not let fall a single word indicating
any previous acquaintance between them. On his side, however great
FranzГўВҖВҷs desire was to allude to their former interview, the fear of
being disagreeable to the man who had loaded him and his friend with
kindness prevented him from mentioning it.

The count had learned that the two friends had sent to secure a box at
the Argentina Theatre, and were told they were all let. In consequence,
he brought them the key of his ownГўВҖВ”at least such was the apparent
motive of his visit. Franz and Albert made some difficulty, alleging
their fear of depriving him of it; but the count replied that, as he
was going to the Palli Theatre, the box at the Argentina Theatre would
be lost if they did not profit by it. This assurance determined the two
friends to accept it.

Franz had by degrees become accustomed to the countГўВҖВҷs pallor, which had
so forcibly struck him at their first meeting. He could not refrain
from admiring the severe beauty of his features, the only defect, or
rather the principal quality of which was the pallor. Truly, a Byronic
hero! Franz could not, we will not say see him, but even think of him
without imagining his stern head upon ManfredГўВҖВҷs shoulders, or beneath
LaraГўВҖВҷs helmet. His forehead was marked with the line that indicates the
constant presence of bitter thoughts; he had the fiery eyes that seem
to penetrate to the very soul, and the haughty and disdainful upper lip
that gives to the words it utters a peculiar character that impresses
them on the minds of those to whom they are addressed.

The count was no longer young. He was at least forty; and yet it was
easy to understand that he was formed to rule the young men with whom
he associated at present. And, to complete his resemblance with the
fantastic heroes of the English poet, the count seemed to have the
power of fascination. Albert was constantly expatiating on their good
fortune in meeting such a man. Franz was less enthusiastic; but the
count exercised over him also the ascendency a strong mind always
acquires over a mind less domineering. He thought several times of the
project the count had of visiting Paris; and he had no doubt but that,
with his eccentric character, his characteristic face, and his colossal
fortune, he would produce a great effect there. And yet he did not wish
to be at Paris when the count was there.

The evening passed as evenings mostly pass at Italian theatres; that
is, not in listening to the music, but in paying visits and conversing.
The Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ” wished to revive the subject of the count, but Franz
announced he had something far newer to tell her, and, in spite of
AlbertГўВҖВҷs demonstrations of false modesty, he informed the countess of
the great event which had preoccupied them for the last three days. As
similar intrigues are not uncommon in Italy, if we may credit
travellers, the comtess did not manifest the least incredulity, but
congratulated Albert on his success. They promised, upon separating, to
meet at the Duke of BraccianoГўВҖВҷs ball, to which all Rome was invited.

The heroine of the bouquet kept her word; she gave Albert no sign of
her existence the morrow or the day after.

At length Tuesday came, the last and most tumultuous day of the
Carnival. On Tuesday, the theatres open at ten oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning,
as Lent begins after eight at night. On Tuesday, all those who through
want of money, time, or enthusiasm, have not been to see the Carnival
before, mingle in the gayety, and contribute to the noise and
excitement. From two oГўВҖВҷclock till five Franz and Albert followed in the
_fГғВӘte_, exchanging handfuls of _confetti_ with the other carriages and
the pedestrians, who crowded amongst the horsesГўВҖВҷ feet and the carriage
wheels without a single accident, a single dispute, or a single fight.

The _fГғВӘtes_ are veritable pleasure days to the Italians. The author of
this history, who has resided five or six years in Italy, does not
recollect to have ever seen a ceremony interrupted by one of those
events so common in other countries. Albert was triumphant in his
harlequin costume. A knot of rose-colored ribbons fell from his
shoulder almost to the ground. In order that there might be no
confusion, Franz wore his peasantГўВҖВҷs costume.

As the day advanced, the tumult became greater. There was not on the
pavement, in the carriages, at the windows, a single tongue that was
silent, a single arm that did not move. It was a human storm, made up
of a thunder of cries, and a hail of sweetmeats, flowers, eggs,
oranges, and nosegays.

At three oГўВҖВҷclock the sound of fireworks, let off on the Piazza del
Popolo and the Piazza di Venezia (heard with difficulty amid the din
and confusion) announced that the races were about to begin.

The races, like the _moccoli_, are one of the episodes peculiar to the
last days of the Carnival. At the sound of the fireworks the carriages
instantly broke ranks, and retired by the adjacent streets. All these
evolutions are executed with an inconceivable address and marvellous
rapidity, without the police interfering in the matter. The pedestrians
ranged themselves against the walls; then the trampling of horses and
the clashing of steel were heard. A detachment of carbineers, fifteen
abreast, galloped up the Corso in order to clear it for the _barberi_.
When the detachment arrived at the Piazza di Venezia, a second volley
of fireworks was discharged, to announce that the street was clear.

Almost instantly, in the midst of a tremendous and general outcry,
seven or eight horses, excited by the shouts of three hundred thousand
spectators, passed by like lightning. Then the Castle of Saint Angelo
fired three cannon to indicate that number three had won.

Immediately, without any other signal, the carriages moved on, flowing
on towards the Corso, down all the streets, like torrents pent up for a
while, which again flow into the parent river; and the immense stream
again continued its course between its two granite banks.

A new source of noise and movement was added to the crowd. The sellers
of _moccoletti_ entered on the scene. The _moccoli_, or _moccoletti_,
are candles which vary in size from the pascal taper to the rushlight,
and which give to each actor in the great final scene of the Carnival
two very serious problems to grapple with,ГўВҖВ”first, how to keep his own
_moccoletto_ alight; and secondly, how to extinguish the _moccoletti_
of others. The _moccoletto_ is like life: man has found but one means
of transmitting it, and that one comes from God. But he has discovered
a thousand means of taking it away, and the devil has somewhat aided
him. The _moccoletto_ is kindled by approaching it to a light. But who
can describe the thousand means of extinguishing the _moccoletto_?ГўВҖВ”the
gigantic bellows, the monstrous extinguishers, the superhuman fans.
Everyone hastened to purchase _moccoletti_ГўВҖВ”Franz and Albert among the
rest.

The night was rapidly approaching; and already, at the cry of
ГўВҖВң_Moccoletti_!ГўВҖВқ repeated by the shrill voices of a thousand vendors,
two or three stars began to burn among the crowd. It was a signal. At
the end of ten minutes fifty thousand lights glittered, descending from
the Palazzo di Venezia to the Piazza del Popolo, and mounting from the
Piazza del Popolo to the Palazzo di Venezia. It seemed like the _fГғВӘte_
of Jack-oГўВҖВҷ-lanterns.

It is impossible to form any idea of it without having seen it. Suppose
that all the stars had descended from the sky and mingled in a wild
dance on the face of the earth; the whole accompanied by cries that
were never heard in any other part of the world. The _facchino_ follows
the prince, the Transteverin the citizen, everyone blowing,
extinguishing, relighting. Had old ГғВҶolus appeared at this moment, he
would have been proclaimed king of the _moccoli_, and Aquilo the
heir-presumptive to the throne.

This battle of folly and flame continued for two hours; the Corso was
light as day; the features of the spectators on the third and fourth
stories were visible.

Every five minutes Albert took out his watch; at length it pointed to
seven. The two friends were in the Via dei Pontefici. Albert sprang
out, bearing his _moccoletto_ in his hand. Two or three masks strove to
knock his _moccoletto_ out of his hand; but Albert, a first-rate
pugilist, sent them rolling in the street, one after the other, and
continued his course towards the church of San Giacomo.

The steps were crowded with masks, who strove to snatch each otherГўВҖВҷs
torches. Franz followed Albert with his eyes, and saw him mount the
first step.

Instantly a mask, wearing the well-known costume of a peasant woman,
snatched his _moccoletto_ from him without his offering any resistance.
Franz was too far off to hear what they said; but, without doubt,
nothing hostile passed, for he saw Albert disappear arm-in-arm with the
peasant girl. He watched them pass through the crowd for some time, but
at length he lost sight of them in the Via Macello.

Suddenly the bell that gives the signal for the end of the Carnival
sounded, and at the same instant all the _moccoletti_ were extinguished
as if by enchantment. It seemed as though one immense blast of the wind
had extinguished everyone.

Franz found himself in utter darkness. No sound was audible save that
of the carriages that were carrying the maskers home; nothing was
visible save a few lights that burnt behind the windows.

The Carnival was over.

20193m




 Chapter 37. The Catacombs of Saint Sebastian

In his whole life, perhaps, Franz had never before experienced so
sudden an impression, so rapid a transition from gayety to sadness, as
in this moment. It seemed as though Rome, under the magic breath of
some demon of the night, had suddenly changed into a vast tomb. By a
chance, which added yet more to the intensity of the darkness, the
moon, which was on the wane, did not rise until eleven oГўВҖВҷclock, and the
streets which the young man traversed were plunged in the deepest
obscurity.

The distance was short, and at the end of ten minutes his carriage, or
rather the countГўВҖВҷs, stopped before the HГғВҙtel de Londres.

Dinner was waiting, but as Albert had told him that he should not
return so soon, Franz sat down without him. Signor Pastrini, who had
been accustomed to see them dine together, inquired into the cause of
his absence, but Franz merely replied that Albert had received on the
previous evening an invitation which he had accepted.

The sudden extinction of the _moccoletti_, the darkness which had
replaced the light, and the silence which had succeeded the turmoil,
had left in FranzГўВҖВҷs mind a certain depression which was not free from
uneasiness. He therefore dined very silently, in spite of the officious
attention of his host, who presented himself two or three times to
inquire if he wanted anything.

Franz resolved to wait for Albert as late as possible. He ordered the
carriage, therefore, for eleven oГўВҖВҷclock, desiring Signor Pastrini to
inform him the moment that Albert returned to the hotel.

At eleven oГўВҖВҷclock Albert had not come back. Franz dressed himself, and
went out, telling his host that he was going to pass the night at the
Duke of BraccianoГўВҖВҷs. The house of the Duke of Bracciano is one of the
most delightful in Rome, the duchess, one of the last heiresses of the
Colonnas, does its honors with the most consummate grace, and thus
their _fГғВӘtes_ have a European celebrity.

Franz and Albert had brought to Rome letters of introduction to them,
and their first question on his arrival was to inquire the whereabouts
of his travelling companion. Franz replied that he had left him at the
moment they were about to extinguish the _moccoli_, and that he had
lost sight of him in the Via Macello.

ГўВҖВңThen he has not returned?ГўВҖВқ said the duke.

ГўВҖВңI waited for him until this hour,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz.

ГўВҖВңAnd do you know whither he went?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, not precisely; however, I think it was something very like a
rendezvous.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Diavolo!_ГўВҖВқ said the duke, ГўВҖВңthis is a bad day, or rather a bad night,
to be out late; is it not, countess?ГўВҖВқ

These words were addressed to the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”, who had just arrived,
and was leaning on the arm of Signor Torlonia, the dukeГўВҖВҷs brother.

ГўВҖВңI think, on the contrary, that it is a charming night,ГўВҖВқ replied the
countess, ГўВҖВңand those who are here will complain of but one thing, that
of its too rapid flight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am not speaking,ГўВҖВқ said the duke with a smile, ГўВҖВңof the persons who
are here; the men run no other danger than that of falling in love with
you, and the women of falling ill of jealousy at seeing you so lovely;
I meant persons who were out in the streets of Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ asked the countess, ГўВҖВңwho is out in the streets of Rome at this
hour, unless it be to go to a ball?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOur friend, Albert de Morcerf, countess, whom I left in pursuit of his
unknown about seven oГўВҖВҷclock this evening,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңand whom I have
not seen since.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd donГўВҖВҷt you know where he is?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs he armed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is in masquerade.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou should not have allowed him to go,ГўВҖВқ said the duke to Franz; ГўВҖВңyou,
who know Rome better than he does.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou might as well have tried to stop number three of the _barberi_,
who gained the prize in the race today,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz; ГўВҖВңand then
moreover, what could happen to him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho can tell? The night is gloomy, and the Tiber is very near the Via
Macello.ГўВҖВқ Franz felt a shudder run through his veins at observing that
the feeling of the duke and the countess was so much in unison with his
own personal disquietude.

ГўВҖВңI informed them at the hotel that I had the honor of passing the night
here, duke,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңand desired them to come and inform me of his
return.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ replied the duke, ГўВҖВңhere I think, is one of my servants who is
seeking you.ГўВҖВқ

The duke was not mistaken; when he saw Franz, the servant came up to
him.

ГўВҖВңYour excellency,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңthe master of the HГғВҙtel de Londres has
sent to let you know that a man is waiting for you with a letter from
the Viscount of Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA letter from the viscount!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Franz.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who is the man?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy did he not bring it to me here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe messenger did not say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where is the messenger?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe went away directly he saw me enter the ball-room to find you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said the countess to Franz, ГўВҖВңgo with all speedГўВҖВ”poor young man!
Perhaps some accident has happened to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will hasten,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz.

ГўВҖВңShall we see you again to give us any information?ГўВҖВқ inquired the
countess.

ГўВҖВңYes, if it is not any serious affair, otherwise I cannot answer as to
what I may do myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe prudent, in any event,ГўВҖВқ said the countess.

ГўВҖВңOh! pray be assured of that.ГўВҖВқ

Franz took his hat and went away in haste. He had sent away his
carriage with orders for it to fetch him at two oГўВҖВҷclock; fortunately
the Palazzo Bracciano, which is on one side in the Corso, and on the
other in the Square of the Holy Apostles, is hardly ten minutesГўВҖВҷ walk
from the HГғВҙtel de Londres.

As he came near the hotel, Franz saw a man in the middle of the street.
He had no doubt that it was the messenger from Albert. The man was
wrapped up in a large cloak. He went up to him, but, to his extreme
astonishment, the stranger first addressed him.

ГўВҖВңWhat wants your excellency of me?ГўВҖВқ inquired the man, retreating a step
or two, as if to keep on his guard.

ГўВҖВңAre not you the person who brought me a letter,ГўВҖВқ inquired Franz, ГўВҖВңfrom
the Viscount of Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency lodges at PastriniГўВҖВҷs hotel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency is the travelling companion of the viscount?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellencyГўВҖВҷs nameГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs the Baron Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ

20199m



ГўВҖВңThen it is to your excellency that this letter is addressed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs there any answer?ГўВҖВқ inquired Franz, taking the letter from him.

ГўВҖВңYesГўВҖВ”your friend at least hopes so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome upstairs with me, and I will give it to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI prefer waiting here,ГўВҖВқ said the messenger, with a smile.

ГўВҖВңAnd why?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency will know when you have read the letter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I find you here, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

Franz entered the hotel. On the staircase he met Signor Pastrini.
ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ said the landlord.

ГўВҖВңWellГўВҖВ”what?ГўВҖВқ responded Franz.

ГўВҖВңYou have seen the man who desired to speak with you from your friend?ГўВҖВқ
he asked of Franz.

ГўВҖВңYes, I have seen him,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңand he has handed this letter to
me. Light the candles in my apartment, if you please.ГўВҖВқ

The innkeeper gave orders to a servant to go before Franz with a light.
The young man had found Signor Pastrini looking very much alarmed, and
this had only made him the more anxious to read AlbertГўВҖВҷs letter; and so
he went instantly towards the waxlight, and unfolded it. It was written
and signed by Albert. Franz read it twice before he could comprehend
what it contained. It was thus worded:

ГўВҖВңMy dear Fellow,

ГўВҖВңThe moment you have received this, have the kindness to take the
letter of credit from my pocket-book, which you will find in the square
drawer of the _secrГғВ©taire_; add your own to it, if it be not
sufficient. Run to Torlonia, draw from him instantly four thousand
piastres, and give them to the bearer. It is urgent that I should have
this money without delay. I do not say more, relying on you as you may
rely on me.

ГўВҖВңYour friend,

ГўВҖВңAlbert de Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңP.S.ГўВҖВ”I now believe in Italian _banditti_.ГўВҖВқ

Below these lines were written, in a strange hand, the following in
Italian:

ГўВҖВң_Se alle sei della mattina le quattro mille piastre non sono nelle mie
mani, alla sette il Conte Alberto avrГғВ  cessato di vivere_.

ГўВҖВңLuigi Vampa.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_If by six in the morning the four thousand piastres are not in my
hands, by seven oГўВҖВҷclock the Count Albert will have ceased to live_.ГўВҖВқ

This second signature explained everything to Franz, who now understood
the objection of the messenger to coming up into the apartment; the
street was safer for him. Albert, then, had fallen into the hands of
the famous bandit chief, in whose existence he had for so long a time
refused to believe.

There was no time to lose. He hastened to open the _secrГғВ©taire_, and
found the pocket-book in the drawer, and in it the letter of credit.
There were in all six thousand piastres, but of these six thousand
Albert had already expended three thousand.

As to Franz, he had no letter of credit, as he lived at Florence, and
had only come to Rome to pass seven or eight days; he had brought but a
hundred louis, and of these he had not more than fifty left. Thus seven
or eight hundred piastres were wanting to them both to make up the sum
that Albert required. True, he might in such a case rely on the
kindness of Signor Torlonia. He was, therefore, about to return to the
Palazzo Bracciano without loss of time, when suddenly a luminous idea
crossed his mind.

He remembered the Count of Monte Cristo. Franz was about to ring for
Signor Pastrini, when that worthy presented himself.

ГўВҖВңMy dear sir,ГўВҖВқ he said, hastily, ГўВҖВңdo you know if the count is within?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency; he has this moment returned.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs he in bed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should say no.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen ring at his door, if you please, and request him to be so kind as
to give me an audience.ГўВҖВқ

Signor Pastrini did as he was desired, and returning five minutes
after, he said:

ГўВҖВңThe count awaits your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

Franz went along the corridor, and a servant introduced him to the
count. He was in a small room which Franz had not yet seen, and which
was surrounded with divans. The count came towards him.

ГўВҖВңWell, what good wind blows you hither at this hour?ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңhave
you come to sup with me? It would be very kind of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; I have come to speak to you of a very serious matter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA serious matter,ГўВҖВқ said the count, looking at Franz with the
earnestness usual to him; ГўВҖВңand what may it be?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre we alone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, going to the door, and returning. Franz gave
him AlbertГўВҖВҷs letter.

ГўВҖВңRead that,ГўВҖВқ he said.

The count read it.

ГўВҖВңWell, well!ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңDid you see the postscript?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did, indeed.

ГўВҖВң_ГўВҖВҳSe alle sei della mattina le quattro mille piastre non sono nelle
mie mani, alla sette il conte Alberto avrГғВ  cessato di vivere. _

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳLuigi Vampa.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat think you of that?ГўВҖВқ inquired Franz.

ГўВҖВңHave you the money he demands?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, all but eight hundred piastres.ГўВҖВқ

The count went to his _secrГғВ©taire_, opened it, and pulling out a drawer
filled with gold, said to Franz, ГўВҖВңI hope you will not offend me by
applying to anyone but myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou see, on the contrary, I come to you first and instantly,ГўВҖВқ replied
Franz.

ГўВҖВңAnd I thank you; have what you will;ГўВҖВқ and he made a sign to Franz to
take what he pleased.

ГўВҖВңIs it absolutely necessary, then, to send the money to Luigi Vampa?ГўВҖВқ
asked the young man, looking fixedly in his turn at the count.

ГўВҖВңJudge for yourself,ГўВҖВқ replied he. ГўВҖВңThe postscript is explicit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think that if you would take the trouble of reflecting, you could
find a way of simplifying the negotiation,ГўВҖВқ said Franz.

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ returned the count, with surprise.

ГўВҖВңIf we were to go together to Luigi Vampa, I am sure he would not
refuse you AlbertГўВҖВҷs freedom.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat influence can I possibly have over a bandit?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you not just rendered him a service that can never be forgotten?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you not saved PeppinoГўВҖВҷs life?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, well,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңwho told you that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo matter; I know it.ГўВҖВқ The count knit his brows, and remained silent
an instant.

ГўВҖВңAnd if I went to seek Vampa, would you accompany me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf my society would not be disagreeable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe it so. It is a lovely night, and a walk without Rome will do us
both good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I take any arms?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor what purpose?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAny money?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is useless. Where is the man who brought the letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the street.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe awaits the answer?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI must learn where we are going. I will summon him hither.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is useless; he would not come up.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo your apartments, perhaps; but he will not make any difficulty at
entering mine.ГўВҖВқ

The count went to the window of the apartment that looked on to the
street, and whistled in a peculiar manner. The man in the mantle
quitted the wall, and advanced into the middle of the street.
ГўВҖВң_Salite!_ГўВҖВқ said the count, in the same tone in which he would have
given an order to his servant. The messenger obeyed without the least
hesitation, but rather with alacrity, and, mounting the steps at a
bound, entered the hotel; five seconds afterwards he was at the door of
the room.

ГўВҖВңAh, it is you, Peppino,ГўВҖВқ said the count. But Peppino, instead of
answering, threw himself on his knees, seized the countГўВҖВҷs hand, and
covered it with kisses. ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyou have, then, not
forgotten that I saved your life; that is strange, for it is a week
ago.ГўВҖВқ

20203m



ГўВҖВңNo, excellency; and never shall I forget it,ГўВҖВқ returned Peppino, with
an accent of profound gratitude.

ГўВҖВңNever? That is a long time; but it is something that you believe so.
Rise and answer.ГўВҖВқ

Peppino glanced anxiously at Franz.

ГўВҖВңOh, you may speak before his excellency,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңhe is one of my
friends. You allow me to give you this title?ГўВҖВқ continued the count in
French, ГўВҖВңit is necessary to excite this manГўВҖВҷs confidence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou can speak before me,ГўВҖВқ said Franz; ГўВҖВңI am a friend of the countГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood!ГўВҖВқ returned Peppino. ГўВҖВңI am ready to answer any questions your
excellency may address to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow did the Viscount Albert fall into LuigiГўВҖВҷs hands?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcellency, the FrenchmanГўВҖВҷs carriage passed several times the one in
which was Teresa.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe chiefГўВҖВҷs mistress?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. The Frenchman threw her a bouquet; Teresa returned itГўВҖВ”all this
with the consent of the chief, who was in the carriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ cried Franz, ГўВҖВңwas Luigi Vampa in the carriage with the Roman
peasants?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was he who drove, disguised as the coachman,ГўВҖВқ replied Peppino.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, the Frenchman took off his mask; Teresa, with the chiefГўВҖВҷs
consent, did the same. The Frenchman asked for a rendezvous; Teresa
gave him oneГўВҖВ”only, instead of Teresa, it was Beppo who was on the steps
of the church of San Giacomo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Franz, ГўВҖВңthe peasant girl who snatched his _mocoletto_
from himГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas a lad of fifteen,ГўВҖВқ replied Peppino. ГўВҖВңBut it was no disgrace to
your friend to have been deceived; Beppo has taken in plenty of
others.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd Beppo led him outside the walls?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңExactly so; a carriage was waiting at the end of the Via Macello.
Beppo got in, inviting the Frenchman to follow him, and he did not wait
to be asked twice. He gallantly offered the right-hand seat to Beppo,
and sat by him. Beppo told him he was going to take him to a villa a
league from Rome; the Frenchman assured him he would follow him to the
end of the world. The coachman went up the Via di Ripetta and the Porta
San Paolo; and when they were two hundred yards outside, as the
Frenchman became somewhat too forward, Beppo put a brace of pistols to
his head, the coachman pulled up and did the same. At the same time,
four of the band, who were concealed on the banks of the Almo,
surrounded the carriage. The Frenchman made some resistance, and nearly
strangled Beppo; but he could not resist five armed men, and was forced
to yield. They made him get out, walk along the banks of the river, and
then brought him to Teresa and Luigi, who were waiting for him in the
catacombs of St. Sebastian.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the count, turning towards Franz, ГўВҖВңit seems to me that
this is a very likely story. What do you say to it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, that I should think it very amusing,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңif it had
happened to anyone but poor Albert.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd, in truth, if you had not found me here,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңit
might have proved a gallant adventure which would have cost your friend
dear; but now, be assured, his alarm will be the only serious
consequence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd shall we go and find him?ГўВҖВқ inquired Franz.

ГўВҖВңOh, decidedly, sir. He is in a very picturesque placeГўВҖВ”do you know the
catacombs of St. Sebastian?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was never in them; but I have often resolved to visit them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, here is an opportunity made to your hand, and it would be
difficult to contrive a better. Have you a carriage?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is of no consequence; I always have one ready, day and night.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlways ready?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. I am a very capricious being, and I should tell you that
sometimes when I rise, or after my dinner, or in the middle of the
night, I resolve on starting for some particular point, and away I go.ГўВҖВқ

The count rang, and a footman appeared.

ГўВҖВңOrder out the carriage,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңand remove the pistols which are in
the holsters. You need not awaken the coachman; Ali will drive.ГўВҖВқ

In a very short time the noise of wheels was heard, and the carriage
stopped at the door. The count took out his watch.

ГўВҖВңHalf-past twelve,ГўВҖВқ he said. ГўВҖВңWe might start at five oГўВҖВҷclock and be in
time, but the delay may cause your friend to pass an uneasy night, and
therefore we had better go with all speed to extricate him from the
hands of the infidels. Are you still resolved to accompany me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMore determined than ever.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, come along.ГўВҖВқ

Franz and the count went downstairs, accompanied by Peppino. At the
door they found the carriage. Ali was on the box, in whom Franz
recognized the dumb slave of the grotto of Monte Cristo. Franz and the
count got into the carriage. Peppino placed himself beside Ali, and
they set off at a rapid pace. Ali had received his instructions, and
went down the Corso, crossed the Campo Vaccino, went up the Strada San
Gregorio, and reached the gates of St. Sebastian. Then the porter
raised some difficulties, but the Count of Monte Cristo produced a
permit from the governor of Rome, allowing him to leave or enter the
city at any hour of the day or night; the portcullis was therefore
raised, the porter had a louis for his trouble, and they went on their
way.

The road which the carriage now traversed was the ancient Appian Way,
and bordered with tombs. From time to time, by the light of the moon,
which began to rise, Franz imagined that he saw something like a
sentinel appear at various points among the ruins, and suddenly retreat
into the darkness on a signal from Peppino.

A short time before they reached the Baths of Caracalla the carriage
stopped, Peppino opened the door, and the count and Franz alighted.

ГўВҖВңIn ten minutes,ГўВҖВқ said the count to his companion, ГўВҖВңwe shall be there.ГўВҖВқ

He then took Peppino aside, gave him an order in a low voice, and
Peppino went away, taking with him a torch, brought with them in the
carriage. Five minutes elapsed, during which Franz saw the shepherd
going along a narrow path that led over the irregular and broken
surface of the Campagna; and finally he disappeared in the midst of the
tall red herbage, which seemed like the bristling mane of an enormous
lion.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңlet us follow him.ГўВҖВқ

Franz and the count in their turn then advanced along the same path,
which, at the distance of a hundred paces, led them over a declivity to
the bottom of a small valley. They then perceived two men conversing in
the obscurity.

ГўВҖВңOught we to go on?ГўВҖВқ asked Franz of the count; ГўВҖВңor should we pause?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us go on; Peppino will have warned the sentry of our coming.ГўВҖВқ

One of the two men was Peppino, and the other a bandit on the lookout.
Franz and the count advanced, and the bandit saluted them.

ГўВҖВңYour excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino, addressing the count, ГўВҖВңif you will
follow me, the opening of the catacombs is close at hand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on, then,ГўВҖВқ replied the count. They came to an opening behind a
clump of bushes and in the midst of a pile of rocks, by which a man
could scarcely pass. Peppino glided first into this crevice; after they
got along a few paces the passage widened. Peppino passed, lighted his
torch, and turned to see if they came after him. The count first
reached an open space and Franz followed him closely. The passageway
sloped in a gentle descent, enlarging as they proceeded; still Franz
and the count were compelled to advance in a stooping posture, and were
scarcely able to proceed abreast of one another. They went on a hundred
and fifty paces in this way, and then were stopped by, ГўВҖВңWho comes
there?ГўВҖВқ At the same time they saw the reflection of a torch on a
carbine barrel.

ГўВҖВңA friend!ГўВҖВқ responded Peppino; and, advancing alone towards the sentry,
he said a few words to him in a low tone; and then he, like the first,
saluted the nocturnal visitors, making a sign that they might proceed.

Behind the sentinel was a staircase with twenty steps. Franz and the
count descended these, and found themselves in a mortuary chamber. Five
corridors diverged like the rays of a star, and the walls, dug into
niches, which were arranged one above the other in the shape of
coffins, showed that they were at last in the catacombs. Down one of
the corridors, whose extent it was impossible to determine, rays of
light were visible. The count laid his hand on FranzГўВҖВҷs shoulder.

ГўВҖВңWould you like to see a camp of bandits in repose?ГўВҖВқ he inquired.

ГўВҖВңExceedingly,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz.

ГўВҖВңCome with me, then. Peppino, put out the torch.ГўВҖВқ Peppino obeyed, and
Franz and the count were in utter darkness, except that fifty paces in
advance of them a reddish glare, more evident since Peppino had put out
his torch, was visible along the wall.

They advanced silently, the count guiding Franz as if he had the
singular faculty of seeing in the dark. Franz himself, however, saw his
way more plainly in proportion as he went on towards the light, which
served in some manner as a guide. Three arcades were before them, and
the middle one was used as a door. These arcades opened on one side
into the corridor where the count and Franz were, and on the other into
a large square chamber, entirely surrounded by niches similar to those
of which we have spoken.

In the midst of this chamber were four stones, which had formerly
served as an altar, as was evident from the cross which still
surmounted them. A lamp, placed at the base of a pillar, lighted up
with its pale and flickering flame the singular scene which presented
itself to the eyes of the two visitors concealed in the shadow.

A man was seated with his elbow leaning on the column, and was reading
with his back turned to the arcades, through the openings of which the
new-comers contemplated him. This was the chief of the band, Luigi
Vampa. Around him, and in groups, according to their fancy, lying in
their mantles, or with their backs against a sort of stone bench, which
went all round the columbarium, were to be seen twenty brigands or
more, each having his carbine within reach. At the other end, silent,
scarcely visible, and like a shadow, was a sentinel, who was walking up
and down before a grotto, which was only distinguishable because in
that spot the darkness seemed more dense than elsewhere.

When the count thought Franz had gazed sufficiently on this picturesque
tableau, he raised his finger to his lips, to warn him to be silent,
and, ascending the three steps which led to the corridor of the
columbarium, entered the chamber by the middle arcade, and advanced
towards Vampa, who was so intent on the book before him that he did not
hear the noise of his footsteps.

ГўВҖВңWho comes there?ГўВҖВқ cried the sentinel, who was less abstracted, and who
saw by the lamp-light a shadow approaching his chief. At this
challenge, Vampa rose quickly, drawing at the same moment a pistol from
his girdle. In a moment all the bandits were on their feet, and twenty
carbines were levelled at the count.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he in a voice perfectly calm, and no muscle of his
countenance disturbed, ГўВҖВңwell, my dear Vampa, it appears to me that you
receive a friend with a great deal of ceremony.ГўВҖВқ

20207m



ГўВҖВңGround arms,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the chief, with an imperative sign of the
hand, while with the other he took off his hat respectfully; then,
turning to the singular personage who had caused this scene, he said,
ГўВҖВңYour pardon, your excellency, but I was so far from expecting the
honor of a visit, that I did not really recognize you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt seems that your memory is equally short in everything, Vampa,ГўВҖВқ said
the count, ГўВҖВңand that not only do you forget peopleГўВҖВҷs faces, but also
the conditions you make with them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat conditions have I forgotten, your excellency?ГўВҖВқ inquired the
bandit, with the air of a man who, having committed an error, is
anxious to repair it.

ГўВҖВңWas it not agreed,ГўВҖВқ asked the count, ГўВҖВңthat not only my person, but
also that of my friends, should be respected by you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how have I broken that treaty, your excellency?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have this evening carried off and conveyed hither the Viscount
Albert de Morcerf. Well,ГўВҖВқ continued the count, in a tone that made
Franz shudder, ГўВҖВңthis young gentleman is one of _my friends_ГўВҖВ”this young
gentleman lodges in the same hotel as myselfГўВҖВ”this young gentleman has
been up and down the Corso for eight hours in my private carriage, and
yet, I repeat to you, you have carried him off, and conveyed him
hither, and,ГўВҖВқ added the count, taking the letter from his pocket, ГўВҖВңyou
have set a ransom on him, as if he were an utter stranger.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy did you not tell me all thisГўВҖВ”you?ГўВҖВқ inquired the brigand chief,
turning towards his men, who all retreated before his look. ГўВҖВңWhy have
you caused me thus to fail in my word towards a gentleman like the
count, who has all our lives in his hands? By heavens! if I thought one
of you knew that the young gentleman was the friend of his excellency,
I would blow his brains out with my own hand!ГўВҖВқ

20211m



ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the count, turning towards Franz, ГўВҖВңI told you there was
some mistake in this.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you not alone?ГўВҖВқ asked Vampa with uneasiness.

ГўВҖВңI am with the person to whom this letter was addressed, and to whom I
desired to prove that Luigi Vampa was a man of his word. Come, your
excellency,ГўВҖВқ the count added, turning to Franz, ГўВҖВңhere is Luigi Vampa,
who will himself express to you his deep regret at the mistake he has
committed.ГўВҖВқ

Franz approached, the chief advancing several steps to meet him.

ГўВҖВңWelcome among us, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ he said to him; ГўВҖВңyou heard what
the count just said, and also my reply; let me add that I would not for
the four thousand piastres at which I had fixed your friendГўВҖВҷs ransom,
that this had happened.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, looking round him uneasily, ГўВҖВңwhere is the
viscount?ГўВҖВ”I do not see him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing has happened to him, I hope,ГўВҖВқ said the count frowningly.

ГўВҖВңThe prisoner is there,ГўВҖВқ replied Vampa, pointing to the hollow space in
front of which the bandit was on guard, ГўВҖВңand I will go myself and tell
him he is free.ГўВҖВқ

The chief went towards the place he had pointed out as AlbertГўВҖВҷs prison,
and Franz and the count followed him.

ГўВҖВңWhat is the prisoner doing?ГўВҖВқ inquired Vampa of the sentinel.

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, captain,ГўВҖВқ replied the sentry, ГўВҖВңI do not know; for the last
hour I have not heard him stir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome in, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Vampa. The count and Franz ascended
seven or eight steps after the chief, who drew back a bolt and opened a
door. Then, by the gleam of a lamp, similar to that which lighted the
columbarium, Albert was to be seen wrapped up in a cloak which one of
the bandits had lent him, lying in a corner in profound slumber.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said the count, smiling with his own peculiar smile, ГўВҖВңnot so
bad for a man who is to be shot at seven oГўВҖВҷclock tomorrow morning.ГўВҖВқ

Vampa looked at Albert with a kind of admiration; he was not insensible
to such a proof of courage.

ГўВҖВңYou are right, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңthis must be one of your
friends.ГўВҖВқ

Then going to Albert, he touched him on the shoulder, saying, ГўВҖВңWill
your excellency please to awaken?ГўВҖВқ

Albert stretched out his arms, rubbed his eyelids, and opened his eyes.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңis it you, captain? You should have allowed me to
sleep. I had such a delightful dream. I was dancing the galop at
TorloniaГўВҖВҷs with the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”.ГўВҖВқ Then he drew his watch from his
pocket, that he might see how time sped.

ГўВҖВңHalf-past one only?ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңWhy the devil do you rouse me at this
hour?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo tell you that you are free, your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, with perfect ease of mind, ГўВҖВңremember,
for the future, NapoleonГўВҖВҷs maxim, ГўВҖВҳNever awaken me but for bad news;ГўВҖВҷ
if you had let me sleep on, I should have finished my galop, and have
been grateful to you all my life. So, then, they have paid my ransom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, how am I free?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA person to whom I can refuse nothing has come to demand you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome hither?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, hither.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally? Then that person is a most amiable person.ГўВҖВқ

Albert looked around and perceived Franz. ГўВҖВңWhat,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңis it you,
my dear Franz, whose devotion and friendship are thus displayed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, not I,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңbut our neighbor, the Count of Monte
Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ said Albert gayly, arranging his cravat and
wristbands, ГўВҖВңyou are really most kind, and I hope you will consider me
as under eternal obligations to you, in the first place for the
carriage, and in the next for this visit,ГўВҖВқ and he put out his hand to
the count, who shuddered as he gave his own, but who nevertheless did
give it.

The bandit gazed on this scene with amazement; he was evidently
accustomed to see his prisoners tremble before him, and yet here was
one whose gay temperament was not for a moment altered; as for Franz,
he was enchanted at the way in which Albert had sustained the national
honor in the presence of the bandit.

ГўВҖВңMy dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңif you will make haste, we shall yet have
time to finish the night at TorloniaГўВҖВҷs. You may conclude your
interrupted galop, so that you will owe no ill-will to Signor Luigi,
who has, indeed, throughout this whole affair acted like a gentleman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are decidedly right, and we may reach the Palazzo by two oГўВҖВҷclock.
Signor Luigi,ГўВҖВқ continued Albert, ГўВҖВңis there any formality to fulfil
before I take leave of your excellency?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNone, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the bandit, ГўВҖВңyou are as free as air.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, a happy and merry life to you. Come, gentlemen, come.ГўВҖВқ

And Albert, followed by Franz and the count, descended the staircase,
crossed the square chamber, where stood all the bandits, hat in hand.

ГўВҖВңPeppino,ГўВҖВқ said the brigand chief, ГўВҖВңgive me the torch.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat are you going to do?ГўВҖВқ inquired the count.

ГўВҖВңI will show you the way back myself,ГўВҖВқ said the captain; ГўВҖВңthat is the
least honor that I can render to your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

And taking the lighted torch from the hands of the herdsman, he
preceded his guests, not as a servant who performs an act of civility,
but like a king who precedes ambassadors. On reaching the door, he
bowed.

ГўВҖВңAnd now, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ added he, ГўВҖВңallow me to repeat my apologies,
and I hope you will not entertain any resentment at what has occurred.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my dear Vampa,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңbesides, you compensate for
your mistakes in so gentlemanly a way, that one almost feels obliged to
you for having committed them.ГўВҖВқ

20214m



ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ added the chief, turning towards the young men, ГўВҖВңperhaps
the offer may not appear very tempting to you; but if you should ever
feel inclined to pay me a second visit, wherever I may be, you shall be
welcome.ГўВҖВқ

Franz and Albert bowed. The count went out first, then Albert. Franz
paused for a moment.

ГўВҖВңHas your excellency anything to ask me?ГўВҖВқ said Vampa with a smile.

ГўВҖВңYes, I have,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz; ГўВҖВңI am curious to know what work you were
perusing with so much attention as we entered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCГғВҰsarГўВҖВҷs _Commentaries_,ГўВҖВқ said the bandit, ГўВҖВңit is my favorite work.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, are you coming?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңhere I am,ГўВҖВқ and he, in his turn, left the caves.
They advanced to the plain.

ГўВҖВңAh, your pardon,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, turning round; ГўВҖВңwill you allow me,
captain?ГўВҖВқ

And he lighted his cigar at VampaГўВҖВҷs torch.

ГўВҖВңNow, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңlet us on with all the speed we may. I
am enormously anxious to finish my night at the Duke of BraccianoГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

They found the carriage where they had left it. The count said a word
in Arabic to Ali, and the horses went on at great speed.

It was just two oГўВҖВҷclock by AlbertГўВҖВҷs watch when the two friends entered
into the dancing-room. Their return was quite an event, but as they
entered together, all uneasiness on AlbertГўВҖВҷs account ceased instantly.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said the Viscount of Morcerf, advancing towards the countess,
ГўВҖВңyesterday you were so condescending as to promise me a galop; I am
rather late in claiming this gracious promise, but here is my friend,
whose character for veracity you well know, and he will assure you the
delay arose from no fault of mine.ГўВҖВқ

And as at this moment the orchestra gave the signal for the waltz,
Albert put his arm round the waist of the countess, and disappeared
with her in the whirl of dancers.

In the meanwhile Franz was considering the singular shudder that had
passed over the Count of Monte Cristo at the moment when he had been,
in some sort, forced to give his hand to Albert.



 Chapter 38. The Rendezvous

The first words that Albert uttered to his friend, on the following
morning, contained a request that Franz would accompany him on a visit
to the count; true, the young man had warmly and energetically thanked
the count on the previous evening; but services such as he had rendered
could never be too often acknowledged. Franz, who seemed attracted by
some invisible influence towards the count, in which terror was
strangely mingled, felt an extreme reluctance to permit his friend to
be exposed alone to the singular fascination that this mysterious
personage seemed to exercise over him, and therefore made no objection
to AlbertГўВҖВҷs request, but at once accompanied him to the desired spot,
and, after a short delay, the count joined them in the salon.

ГўВҖВңMy dear count,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, advancing to meet him, ГўВҖВңpermit me to
repeat the poor thanks I offered last night, and to assure you that the
remembrance of all I owe to you will never be effaced from my memory;
believe me, as long as I live, I shall never cease to dwell with
grateful recollection on the prompt and important service you rendered
me; and also to remember that to you I am indebted even for my life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy very good friend and excellent neighbor,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, with a
smile, ГўВҖВңyou really exaggerate my trifling exertions. You owe me nothing
but some trifle of 20,000 francs, which you have been saved out of your
travelling expenses, so that there is not much of a score between
us;ГўВҖВ”but you must really permit me to congratulate you on the ease and
unconcern with which you resigned yourself to your fate, and the
perfect indifference you manifested as to the turn events might take.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon my word,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI deserve no credit for what I could not
help, namely, a determination to take everything as I found it, and to
let those bandits see, that although men get into troublesome scrapes
all over the world, there is no nation but the French that can smile
even in the face of grim Death himself. All that, however, has nothing
to do with my obligations to you, and I now come to ask you whether, in
my own person, my family, or connections, I can in any way serve you?
My father, the Comte de Morcerf, although of Spanish origin, possesses
considerable influence, both at the court of France and Madrid, and I
unhesitatingly place the best services of myself, and all to whom my
life is dear, at your disposal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur de Morcerf,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңyour offer, far from
surprising me, is precisely what I expected from you, and I accept it
in the same spirit of hearty sincerity with which it is made;ГўВҖВ”nay, I
will go still further, and say that I had previously made up my mind to
ask a great favor at your hands.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, pray name it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am wholly a stranger to ParisГўВҖВ”it is a city I have never yet seen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert, ГўВҖВңthat you have reached your present
age without visiting the finest capital in the world? I can scarcely
credit it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNevertheless, it is quite true; still, I agree with you in thinking
that my present ignorance of the first city in Europe is a reproach to
me in every way, and calls for immediate correction; but, in all
probability, I should have performed so important, so necessary a duty,
as that of making myself acquainted with the wonders and beauties of
your justly celebrated capital, had I known any person who would have
introduced me into the fashionable world, but unfortunately I possessed
no acquaintance there, and, of necessity, was compelled to abandon the
idea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo distinguished an individual as yourself,ГўВҖВқ cried Albert, ГўВҖВңcould
scarcely have required an introduction.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are most kind; but as regards myself, I can find no merit I
possess, save that, as a millionaire, I might have become a partner in
the speculations of M. Aguado and M. Rothschild; but as my motive in
travelling to your capital would not have been for the pleasure of
dabbling in stocks, I stayed away till some favorable chance should
present itself of carrying my wish into execution. Your offer, however,
smooths all difficulties, and I have only to ask you, my dear M. de
MorcerfГўВҖВқ (these words were accompanied by a most peculiar smile),
ГўВҖВңwhether you undertake, upon my arrival in France, to open to me the
doors of that fashionable world of which I know no more than a Huron or
a native of Cochin-China?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that I do, and with infinite pleasure,ГўВҖВқ answered Albert; ГўВҖВңand so
much the more readily as a letter received this morning from my father
summons me to Paris, in consequence of a treaty of marriage (my dear
Franz, do not smile, I beg of you) with a family of high standing, and
connected with the very cream of Parisian society.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңConnected by marriage, you mean,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, laughingly.

ГўВҖВңWell, never mind how it is,ГўВҖВқ answered Albert, ГўВҖВңit comes to the same
thing in the end. Perhaps by the time you return to Paris, I shall be
quite a sober, staid father of a family! A most edifying representative
I shall make of all the domestic virtuesГўВҖВ”donГўВҖВҷt you think so? But as
regards your wish to visit our fine city, my dear count, I can only say
that you may command me and mine to any extent you please.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen it is settled,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңand I give you my solemn
assurance that I only waited an opportunity like the present to realize
plans that I have long meditated.ГўВҖВқ

Franz did not doubt that these plans were the same concerning which the
count had dropped a few words in the grotto of Monte Cristo, and while
the count was speaking the young man watched him closely, hoping to
read something of his purpose in his face, but his countenance was
inscrutable especially when, as in the present case, it was veiled in a
sphinx-like smile.

ГўВҖВңBut tell me now, count,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert, delighted at the idea of
having to chaperon so distinguished a person as Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңtell me
truly whether you are in earnest, or if this project of visiting Paris
is merely one of the chimerical and uncertain air castles of which we
make so many in the course of our lives, but which, like a house built
on the sand, is liable to be blown over by the first puff of wind?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI pledge you my honor,ГўВҖВқ returned the count, ГўВҖВңthat I mean to do as I
have said; both inclination and positive necessity compel me to visit
Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen do you propose going thither?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you made up your mind when you shall be there yourself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly I have; in a fortnight or three weeksГўВҖВҷ time, that is to say,
as fast as I can get there!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay,ГўВҖВқ said the Count; ГўВҖВңI will give you three months ere I join you;
you see I make an ample allowance for all delays and difficulties.

ГўВҖВңAnd in three monthsГўВҖВҷ time,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңyou will be at my house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall we make a positive appointment for a particular day and hour?ГўВҖВқ
inquired the count; ГўВҖВңonly let me warn you that I am proverbial for my
punctilious exactitude in keeping my engagements.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDay for day, hour for hour,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңthat will suit me to a
dot.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo be it, then,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, and extending his hand towards a
calendar, suspended near the chimney-piece, he said, ГўВҖВңtoday is the 21st
of February;ГўВҖВқ and drawing out his watch, added, ГўВҖВңit is exactly
half-past ten oГўВҖВҷclock. Now promise me to remember this, and expect me
the 21st of May at the same hour in the forenoon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCapital!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert; ГўВҖВңyour breakfast shall be waiting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere do you live?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo. 27, Rue du Helder.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you bachelorГўВҖВҷs apartments there? I hope my coming will not put
you to any inconvenience.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI reside in my fatherГўВҖВҷs house, but occupy a pavilion at the farther
side of the courtyard, entirely separated from the main building.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңQuite sufficient,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, as, taking out his tablets, he
wrote down ГўВҖВңNo. 27, Rue du Helder, 21st May, half-past ten in the
morning.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow then,ГўВҖВқ said the count, returning his tablets to his pocket, ГўВҖВңmake
yourself perfectly easy; the hand of your time-piece will not be more
accurate in marking the time than myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I see you again ere my departure?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert.

ГўВҖВңThat depends; when do you leave?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTomorrow evening, at five oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn that case I must say adieu to you, as I am compelled to go to
Naples, and shall not return hither before Saturday evening or Sunday
morning. And you, baron,ГўВҖВқ pursued the count, addressing Franz, ГўВҖВңdo you
also depart tomorrow?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor France?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, for Venice; I shall remain in Italy for another year or two.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen we shall not meet in Paris?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI fear I shall not have that honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, since we must part,ГўВҖВқ said the count, holding out a hand to each
of the young men, ГўВҖВңallow me to wish you both a safe and pleasant
journey.ГўВҖВқ

It was the first time the hand of Franz had come in contact with that
of the mysterious individual before him, and unconsciously he shuddered
at its touch, for it felt cold and icy as that of a corpse.

20219m



ГўВҖВңLet us understand each other,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңit is agreedГўВҖВ”is it
not?ГўВҖВ”that you are to be at No. 27, in the Rue du Helder, on the 21st of
May, at half-past ten in the morning, and your word of honor passed for
your punctuality?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe 21st of May, at half-past ten in the morning, Rue du Helder, No.
27,ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

The young men then rose, and bowing to the count, quitted the room.

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert of Franz, when they had returned to
their own apartments; ГўВҖВңyou seem more than commonly thoughtful.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will confess to you, Albert,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңthe count is a very
singular person, and the appointment you have made to meet him in Paris
fills me with a thousand apprehensions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert, ГўВҖВңwhat can there possibly be in that
to excite uneasiness? Why, you must have lost your senses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhether I am in my senses or not,ГўВҖВқ answered Franz, ГўВҖВңthat is the way I
feel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen to me, Franz,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңI am glad that the occasion has
presented itself for saying this to you, for I have noticed how cold
you are in your bearing towards the count, while he, on the other hand,
has always been courtesy itself to us. Have you anything particular
against him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPossibly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you ever meet him previously to coming hither?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you promise me not to repeat a single word of what I am about to
tell you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI promise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon your honor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon my honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen listen to me.ГўВҖВқ

Franz then related to his friend the history of his excursion to the
Island of Monte Cristo and of his finding a party of smugglers there,
and the two Corsican bandits with them. He dwelt with considerable
force and energy on the almost magical hospitality he had received from
the count, and the magnificence of his entertainment in the grotto of
the _Thousand and One Nights_.

He recounted, with circumstantial exactitude, all the particulars of
the supper, the hashish, the statues, the dream, and how, at his
awakening, there remained no proof or trace of all these events, save
the small yacht, seen in the distant horizon driving under full sail
toward Porto-Vecchio.

Then he detailed the conversation overheard by him at the Colosseum,
between the count and Vampa, in which the count had promised to obtain
the release of the bandit Peppino,ГўВҖВ”an engagement which, as our readers
are aware, he most faithfully fulfilled.

At last he arrived at the adventure of the preceding night, and the
embarrassment in which he found himself placed by not having sufficient
cash by six or seven hundred piastres to make up the sum required, and
finally of his application to the count and the picturesque and
satisfactory result that followed. Albert listened with the most
profound attention.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, when Franz had concluded, ГўВҖВңwhat do you find to object
to in all you have related? The count is fond of travelling, and, being
rich, possesses a vessel of his own. Go but to Portsmouth or
Southampton, and you will find the harbors crowded with the yachts
belonging to such of the English as can afford the expense, and have
the same liking for this amusement. Now, by way of having a
resting-place during his excursions, avoiding the wretched
cookeryГўВҖВ”which has been trying its best to poison me during the last
four months, while you have manfully resisted its effects for as many
years,ГўВҖВ”and obtaining a bed on which it is possible to slumber, Monte
Cristo has furnished for himself a temporary abode where you first
found him; but, to prevent the possibility of the Tuscan government
taking a fancy to his enchanted palace, and thereby depriving him of
the advantages naturally expected from so large an outlay of capital,
he has wisely enough purchased the island, and taken its name. Just ask
yourself, my good fellow, whether there are not many persons of our
acquaintance who assume the names of lands and properties they never in
their lives were masters of?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңthe Corsican bandits that were among the crew of
his vessel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, really the thing seems to me simple enough. Nobody knows better
than yourself that the bandits of Corsica are not rogues or thieves,
but purely and simply fugitives, driven by some sinister motive from
their native town or village, and that their fellowship involves no
disgrace or stigma; for my own part, I protest that, should I ever go
to Corsica, my first visit, ere even I presented myself to the mayor or
prefect, should be to the bandits of Colomba, if I could only manage to
find them; for, on my conscience, they are a race of men I admire
greatly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill,ГўВҖВқ persisted Franz, ГўВҖВңI suppose you will allow that such men as
Vampa and his band are regular villains, who have no other motive than
plunder when they seize your person. How do you explain the influence
the count evidently possessed over those ruffians?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy good friend, as in all probability I own my present safety to that
influence, it would ill become me to search too closely into its
source; therefore, instead of condemning him for his intimacy with
outlaws, you must give me leave to excuse any little irregularity there
may be in such a connection; not altogether for preserving my life, for
my own idea was that it never was in much danger, but certainly for
saving me 4,000 piastres, which, being translated, means neither more
nor less than 24,000 livres of our moneyГўВҖВ”a sum at which, most
assuredly, I should never have been estimated in France, proving most
indisputably,ГўВҖВқ added Albert with a laugh, ГўВҖВңthat no prophet is honored
in his own country.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTalking of countries,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңof what country is the count,
what is his native tongue, whence does he derive his immense fortune,
and what were those events of his early lifeГўВҖВ”a life as marvellous as
unknownГўВҖВ”that have tinctured his succeeding years with so dark and
gloomy a misanthropy? Certainly these are questions that, in your
place, I should like to have answered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear Franz,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңwhen, upon receipt of my letter, you
found the necessity of asking the countГўВҖВҷs assistance, you promptly went
to him, saying, ГўВҖВҳMy friend Albert de Morcerf is in danger; help me to
deliver him.ГўВҖВҷ Was not that nearly what you said?ГўВҖВқ

20222m



ГўВҖВңIt was.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, did he ask you, ГўВҖВҳWho is M. Albert de Morcerf? how does he
come by his nameГўВҖВ”his fortune? what are his means of existence? what is
his birthplace? of what country is he a native?ГўВҖВҷ Tell me, did he put
all these questions to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI confess he asked me none.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; he merely came and freed me from the hands of Signor Vampa, where,
I can assure you, in spite of all my outward appearance of ease and
unconcern, I did not very particularly care to remain. Now, then,
Franz, when, for services so promptly and unhesitatingly rendered, he
but asks me in return to do for him what is done daily for any Russian
prince or Italian nobleman who may pass through ParisГўВҖВ”merely to
introduce him into societyГўВҖВ”would you have me refuse? My good fellow,
you must have lost your senses to think it possible I could act with
such cold-blooded policy.ГўВҖВқ

And this time it must be confessed that, contrary to the usual state of
affairs in discussions between the young men, the effective arguments
were all on AlbertГўВҖВҷs side.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Franz with a sigh, ГўВҖВңdo as you please my dear viscount, for
your arguments are beyond my powers of refutation. Still, in spite of
all, you must admit that this Count of Monte Cristo is a most singular
personage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is a philanthropist,ГўВҖВқ answered the other; ГўВҖВңand no doubt his motive
in visiting Paris is to compete for the Monthyon prize, given, as you
are aware, to whoever shall be proved to have most materially advanced
the interests of virtue and humanity. If my vote and interest can
obtain it for him, I will readily give him the one and promise the
other. And now, my dear Franz, let us talk of something else. Come,
shall we take our luncheon, and then pay a last visit to St. PeterГўВҖВҷs?ГўВҖВқ

Franz silently assented; and the following afternoon, at half-past five
oГўВҖВҷclock, the young men parted. Albert de Morcerf to return to Paris,
and Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay to pass a fortnight at Venice.

But, ere he entered his travelling carriage, Albert, fearing that his
expected guest might forget the engagement he had entered into, placed
in the care of a waiter at the hotel a card to be delivered to the
Count of Monte Cristo, on which, beneath the name of Viscount Albert de
Morcerf, he had written in pencil:

ГўВҖВң27, _Rue du Helder, on the_ 21_st May, half-past ten_ A.M.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 39. The Guests

In the house in the Rue du Helder, where Albert had invited the Count
of Monte Cristo, everything was being prepared on the morning of the
21st of May to do honor to the occasion. Albert de Morcerf inhabited a
pavilion situated at the corner of a large court, and directly opposite
another building, in which were the servantsГўВҖВҷ apartments. Two windows
only of the pavilion faced the street; three other windows looked into
the court, and two at the back into the garden.

Between the court and the garden, built in the heavy style of the
imperial architecture, was the large and fashionable dwelling of the
Count and Countess of Morcerf.

A high wall surrounded the whole of the property, surmounted at
intervals by vases filled with flowers, and broken in the centre by a
large gate of gilded iron, which served as the carriage entrance. A
small door, close to the lodge of the _concierge_, gave ingress and
egress to the servants and masters when they were on foot.

It was easy to discover that the delicate care of a mother, unwilling
to part from her son, and yet aware that a young man of the viscountГўВҖВҷs
age required the full exercise of his liberty, had chosen this
habitation for Albert. There were not lacking, however, evidences of
what we may call the intelligent egoism of a youth who is charmed with
the indolent, careless life of an only son, and who lives as it were in
a gilded cage. By means of the two windows looking into the street,
Albert could see all that passed; the sight of what is going on is
necessary to young men, who always want to see the world traverse their
horizon, even if that horizon is only a public thoroughfare. Then,
should anything appear to merit a more minute examination, Albert de
Morcerf could follow up his researches by means of a small gate,
similar to that close to the _conciergeГўВҖВҷs_ door, and which merits a
particular description.

It was a little entrance that seemed never to have been opened since
the house was built, so entirely was it covered with dust and dirt; but
the well-oiled hinges and locks told quite another story. This door was
a mockery to the _concierge_, from whose vigilance and jurisdiction it
was free, and, like that famous portal in the _Arabian Nights_, opening
at the ГўВҖВң_Sesame_ГўВҖВқ of Ali Baba, it was wont to swing backward at a
cabalistic word or a concerted tap from without from the sweetest
voices or whitest fingers in the world.

At the end of a long corridor, with which the door communicated, and
which formed the antechamber, was, on the right, AlbertГўВҖВҷs
breakfast-room, looking into the court, and on the left the salon,
looking into the garden. Shrubs and creeping plants covered the
windows, and hid from the garden and court these two apartments, the
only rooms into which, as they were on the ground floor, the prying
eyes of the curious could penetrate.

On the floor above were similar rooms, with the addition of a third,
formed out of the antechamber; these three rooms were a salon, a
boudoir, and a bedroom. The salon downstairs was only an Algerian
divan, for the use of smokers. The boudoir upstairs communicated with
the bedchamber by an invisible door on the staircase; it was evident
that every precaution had been taken. Above this floor was a large
_atelier_, which had been increased in size by pulling down the
partitionsГўВҖВ”a pandemonium, in which the artist and the dandy strove for
pre-eminence.

There were collected and piled up all AlbertГўВҖВҷs successive caprices,
hunting-horns, bass-viols, flutesГўВҖВ”a whole orchestra, for Albert had had
not a taste but a fancy for music; easels, palettes, brushes,
pencilsГўВҖВ”for music had been succeeded by painting; foils, boxing-gloves,
broadswords, and single-sticksГўВҖВ”for, following the example of the
fashionable young men of the time, Albert de Morcerf cultivated, with
far more perseverance than music and drawing, the three arts that
complete a dandyГўВҖВҷs education, i.e., fencing, boxing, and single-stick;
and it was here that he received Grisier, Cooks, and Charles Leboucher.

The rest of the furniture of this privileged apartment consisted of old
cabinets, filled with Chinese porcelain and Japanese vases, Lucca della
Robbia _faГғВҜences_, and Palissy platters; of old armchairs, in which
perhaps had sat Henry IV. or Sully, Louis XIII. or RichelieuГўВҖВ”for two of
these armchairs, adorned with a carved shield, on which were engraved
the fleur-de-lis of France on an azure field, evidently came from the
Louvre, or, at least, some royal residence.

Over these dark and sombre chairs were thrown splendid stuffs, dyed
beneath PersiaГўВҖВҷs sun, or woven by the fingers of the women of Calcutta
or of Chandernagor. What these stuffs did there, it was impossible to
say; they awaited, while gratifying the eyes, a destination unknown to
their owner himself; in the meantime they filled the place with their
golden and silky reflections.

In the centre of the room was a Roller and Blanchet ГўВҖВңbaby grandГўВҖВқ piano
in rosewood, but holding the potentialities of an orchestra in its
narrow and sonorous cavity, and groaning beneath the weight of the
_chefs-dГўВҖВҷГ…В“uvre_ of Beethoven, Weber, Mozart, Haydn, GrГғВ©try, and
Porpora.

On the walls, over the doors, on the ceiling, were swords, daggers,
Malay creeses, maces, battle-axes; gilded, damasked, and inlaid suits
of armor; dried plants, minerals, and stuffed birds, their
flame-colored wings outspread in motionless flight, and their beaks
forever open. This was AlbertГўВҖВҷs favorite lounging place.

However, the morning of the appointment, the young man had established
himself in the small salon downstairs. There, on a table, surrounded at
some distance by a large and luxurious divan, every species of tobacco
known,ГўВҖВ”from the yellow tobacco of Petersburg to the black of Sinai, and
so on along the scale from Maryland and Porto Rico, to Latakia,ГўВҖВ”was
exposed in pots of crackled earthenware of which the Dutch are so fond;
beside them, in boxes of fragrant wood, were ranged, according to their
size and quality, puros, regalias, havanas, and manillas; and, in an
open cabinet, a collection of German pipes, of chibouques, with their
amber mouth-pieces ornamented with coral, and of narghiles, with their
long tubes of morocco, awaiting the caprice or the sympathy of the
smokers.

Albert had himself presided at the arrangement, or, rather, the
symmetrical derangement, which, after coffee, the guests at a breakfast
of modern days love to contemplate through the vapor that escapes from
their mouths, and ascends in long and fanciful wreaths to the ceiling.

At a quarter to ten, a valet entered; he composed, with a little groom
named John, and who only spoke English, all AlbertГўВҖВҷs establishment,
although the cook of the hotel was always at his service, and on great
occasions the countГўВҖВҷs _chasseur_ also. This valet, whose name was
Germain, and who enjoyed the entire confidence of his young master,
held in one hand a number of papers, and in the other a packet of
letters, which he gave to Albert. Albert glanced carelessly at the
different missives, selected two written in a small and delicate hand,
and enclosed in scented envelopes, opened them and perused their
contents with some attention.

ГўВҖВңHow did these letters come?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңOne by the post, Madame DanglarsГўВҖВҷ footman left the other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet Madame Danglars know that I accept the place she offers me in her
box. Wait; then, during the day, tell Rosa that when I leave the Opera
I will sup with her as she wishes. Take her six bottles of different
wineГўВҖВ”Cyprus, sherry, and Malaga, and a barrel of Ostend oysters; get
them at BorelГўВҖВҷs, and be sure you say they are for me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt what oГўВҖВҷclock, sir, do you breakfast?ГўВҖВқ

20227m



ГўВҖВңWhat time is it now?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA quarter to ten.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, at half past ten. Debray will, perhaps, be obliged to go to
the ministerГўВҖВ”and besidesГўВҖВқ (Albert looked at his tablets), ГўВҖВңit is the
hour I told the count, 21st May, at half past ten; and though I do not
much rely upon his promise, I wish to be punctual. Is the countess up
yet?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you wish, I will inquire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, ask her for one of her _liqueur_ cellarets, mine is incomplete;
and tell her I shall have the honor of seeing her about three oГўВҖВҷclock,
and that I request permission to introduce someone to her.ГўВҖВқ

The valet left the room. Albert threw himself on the divan, tore off
the cover of two or three of the papers, looked at the theatre
announcements, made a face seeing they gave an opera, and not a ballet;
hunted vainly amongst the advertisements for a new tooth-powder of
which he had heard, and threw down, one after the other, the three
leading papers of Paris, muttering,

ГўВҖВңThese papers become more and more stupid every day.ГўВҖВқ

A moment after, a carriage stopped before the door, and the servant
announced M. Lucien Debray. A tall young man, with light hair, clear
gray eyes, and thin and compressed lips, dressed in a blue coat with
beautifully carved gold buttons, a white neckcloth, and a tortoiseshell
eye-glass suspended by a silken thread, and which, by an effort of the
superciliary and zygomatic muscles, he fixed in his eye, entered, with
a half-official air, without smiling or speaking.

ГўВҖВңGood-morning, Lucien, good-morning,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңyour punctuality
really alarms me. What do I say? punctuality! You, whom I expected
last, you arrive at five minutes to ten, when the time fixed was
half-past! Has the ministry resigned?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ returned the young man, seating himself on the
divan; ГўВҖВңreassure yourself; we are tottering always, but we never fall,
and I begin to believe that we shall pass into a state of immobility,
and then the affairs of the Peninsula will completely consolidate us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true; you drive Don Carlos out of Spain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, my dear fellow, do not confound our plans. We take him to the
other side of the French frontier, and offer him hospitality at
Bourges.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt Bourges?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, he has not much to complain of; Bourges is the capital of Charles
VII. Do you not know that all Paris knew it yesterday, and the day
before it had already transpired on the Bourse, and M. Danglars (I do
not know by what means that man contrives to obtain intelligence as
soon as we do) made a million!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you another order, for I see you have a blue ribbon at your
button-hole.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; they sent me the order of Charles III.,ГўВҖВқ returned Debray
carelessly.

ГўВҖВңCome, do not affect indifference, but confess you were pleased to have
it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is very well as a finish to the toilet. It looks very neat on a
black coat buttoned up.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd makes you resemble the Prince of Wales or the Duke of Reichstadt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is for that reason you see me so early.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause you have the order of Charles III., and you wish to announce
the good news to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, because I passed the night writing letters,ГўВҖВ”five-and-twenty
despatches. I returned home at daybreak, and strove to sleep; but my
head ached and I got up to have a ride for an hour. At the Bois de
Boulogne, _ennui_ and hunger attacked me at once,ГўВҖВ”two enemies who
rarely accompany each other, and who are yet leagued against me, a sort
of Carlo-republican alliance. I then recollected you gave a breakfast
this morning, and here I am. I am hungry, feed me; I am bored, amuse
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is my duty as your host,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert, ringing the bell, while
Lucien turned over, with his gold-mounted cane, the papers that lay on
the table. ГўВҖВңGermain, a glass of sherry and a biscuit. In the meantime,
my dear Lucien, here are cigarsГўВҖВ”contraband, of courseГўВҖВ”try them, and
persuade the minister to sell us such instead of poisoning us with
cabbage leaves.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Peste!_ I will do nothing of the kind; the moment they come from
government you would find them execrable. Besides, that does not
concern the home but the financial department. Address yourself to M.
Humann, section of the indirect contributions, corridor A., No. 26.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my word,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңyou astonish me by the extent of your
knowledge. Take a cigar.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, my dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ replied Lucien, lighting a manilla at a
rose-colored taper that burnt in a beautifully enamelled standГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңhow
happy you are to have nothing to do. You do not know your own good
fortune!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what would you do, my dear diplomatist,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf, with a
slight degree of irony in his voice, ГўВҖВңif you did nothing? What? private
secretary to a minister, plunged at once into European cabals and
Parisian intrigues; having kings, and, better still, queens, to
protect, parties to unite, elections to direct; making more use of your
cabinet with your pen and your telegraph than Napoleon did of his
battle-fields with his sword and his victories; possessing
five-and-twenty thousand francs a year, besides your place; a horse,
for which ChГғВўteau-Renaud offered you four hundred louis, and which you
would not part with; a tailor who never disappoints you; with the
opera, the jockey-club, and other diversions, can you not amuse
yourself? Well, I will amuse you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy introducing to you a new acquaintance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA man or a woman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know so many men already.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you do not know this man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere does he come fromГўВҖВ”the end of the world?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFarther still, perhaps.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe deuce! I hope he does not bring our breakfast with him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no; our breakfast comes from my fatherГўВҖВҷs kitchen. Are you hungry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHumiliating as such a confession is, I am. But I dined at M. de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs, and lawyers always give you very bad dinners. You would
think they felt some remorse; did you ever remark that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, depreciate other personsГўВҖВҷ dinners; you ministers give such
splendid ones.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but we do not invite people of fashion. If we were not forced to
entertain a parcel of country boobies because they think and vote with
us, we should never dream of dining at home, I assure you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, take another glass of sherry and another biscuit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWillingly. Your Spanish wine is excellent. You see we were quite right
to pacify that country.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but Don Carlos?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, Don Carlos will drink Bordeaux, and in ten years we will marry
his son to the little queen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will then obtain the Golden Fleece, if you are still in the
ministry.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think, Albert, you have adopted the system of feeding me on smoke
this morning.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you must allow it is the best thing for the stomach; but I hear
Beauchamp in the next room; you can dispute together, and that will
pass away the time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbout what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbout the papers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Lucien with an air of sovereign contempt, ГўВҖВңdo I
ever read the papers?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you will dispute the more.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Beauchamp,ГўВҖВқ announced the servant. ГўВҖВңCome in, come in,ГўВҖВқ said Albert,
rising and advancing to meet the young man. ГўВҖВңHere is Debray, who
detests you without reading you, so he says.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is quite right,ГўВҖВқ returned Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңfor I criticise him without
knowing what he does. Good-day, commander!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you know that already,ГўВҖВқ said the private secretary, smiling and
shaking hands with him.

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu!_ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what do they say of it in the world?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn which world? we have so many worlds in the year of grace 1838.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the entire political world, of which you are one of the leaders.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey say that it is quite fair, and that sowing so much red, you ought
to reap a little blue.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come, that is not bad!ГўВҖВқ said Lucien. ГўВҖВңWhy do you not join our
party, my dear Beauchamp? With your talents you would make your fortune
in three or four years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI only await one thing before following your advice; that is, a
minister who will hold office for six months. My dear Albert, one word,
for I must give poor Lucien a respite. Do we breakfast or dine? I must
go to the Chamber, for our life is not an idle one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou only breakfast; I await two persons, and the instant they arrive
we shall sit down to table.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 40. The Breakfast

And what sort of persons do you expect to breakfast?ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңA gentleman, and a diplomatist.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen we shall have to wait two hours for the gentleman, and three for
the diplomatist. I shall come back to dessert; keep me some
strawberries, coffee, and cigars. I shall take a cutlet on my way to
the Chamber.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not do anything of the sort; for were the gentleman a Montmorency,
and the diplomatist a Metternich, we will breakfast at eleven; in the
meantime, follow DebrayГўВҖВҷs example, and take a glass of sherry and a
biscuit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe it so; I will stay; I must do something to distract my thoughts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are like Debray, and yet it seems to me that when the minister is
out of spirits, the opposition ought to be joyous.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you do not know with what I am threatened. I shall hear this
morning that M. Danglars make a speech at the Chamber of Deputies, and
at his wifeГўВҖВҷs this evening I shall hear the tragedy of a peer of
France. The devil take the constitutional government, and since we had
our choice, as they say, at least, how could we choose that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI understand; you must lay in a stock of hilarity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not run down M. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ speeches,ГўВҖВқ said Debray; ГўВҖВңhe votes for
you, for he belongs to the opposition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu_, that is exactly the worst of all. I am waiting until you
send him to speak at the Luxembourg, to laugh at my ease.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Albert to Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңit is plain that the
affairs of Spain are settled, for you are most desperately out of humor
this morning. Recollect that Parisian gossip has spoken of a marriage
between myself and Mlle. EugГғВ©nie Danglars; I cannot in conscience,
therefore, let you run down the speeches of a man who will one day say
to me, ГўВҖВҳVicomte, you know I give my daughter two millions.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, this marriage will never take place,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp. ГўВҖВңThe king
has made him a baron, and can make him a peer, but he cannot make him a
gentleman, and the Count of Morcerf is too aristocratic to consent, for
the paltry sum of two million francs, to a _mГғВ©salliance_. The Viscount
of Morcerf can only wed a marchioness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut two million francs make a nice little sum,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңIt is the social capital of a theatre on the boulevard, or a railroad
from the Jardin des Plantes to La RГғВўpГғВ©e.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind what he says, Morcerf,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңdo you marry her. You
marry a money-bag label, it is true; well, but what does that matter?
It is better to have a blazon less and a figure more on it. You have
seven martlets on your arms; give three to your wife, and you will
still have four; that is one more than M. de Guise had, who so nearly
became King of France, and whose cousin was Emperor of Germany.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my word, I think you are right, Lucien,ГўВҖВқ said Albert absently.

ГўВҖВңTo be sure; besides, every millionaire is as noble as a bastardГўВҖВ”that
is, he can be.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not say that, Debray,ГўВҖВқ returned Beauchamp, laughing, ГўВҖВңfor here is
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, who, to cure you of your mania for paradoxes, will pass
the sword of Renaud de Montauban, his ancestor, through your body.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe will sully it then,ГўВҖВқ returned Lucien; ГўВҖВңfor I am lowГўВҖВ”very low.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, heavens,ГўВҖВқ cried Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңthe minister quotes BГғВ©ranger, what
shall we come to next?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de ChГғВўteau-RenaudГўВҖВ”M. Maximilian Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said the servant,
announcing two fresh guests.

ГўВҖВңNow, then, to breakfast,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңfor, if I remember, you
told me you only expected two persons, Albert.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMorrel,ГўВҖВқ muttered AlbertГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMorrelГўВҖВ”who is he?ГўВҖВқ

But before he had finished, M. de ChГғВўteau-Renaud, a handsome young man
of thirty, gentleman all over,ГўВҖВ”that is, with the figure of a Guiche and
the wit of a Mortemart,ГўВҖВ”took AlbertГўВҖВҷs hand.

ГўВҖВңMy dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңlet me introduce to you M. Maximilian
Morrel, captain of Spahis, my friend; and what is moreГўВҖВ”however the man
speaks for himselfГўВҖВ”my preserver. Salute my hero, viscount.ГўВҖВқ

And he stepped on one side to give place to a young man of refined and
dignified bearing, with large and open brow, piercing eyes, and black
moustache, whom our readers have already seen at Marseilles, under
circumstances sufficiently dramatic not to be forgotten. A rich
uniform, half French, half Oriental, set off his graceful and stalwart
figure, and his broad chest was decorated with the order of the Legion
of Honor. The young officer bowed with easy and elegant politeness.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Albert with affectionate courtesy, ГўВҖВңthe count of
ChГғВўteau-Renaud knew how much pleasure this introduction would give me;
you are his friend, be ours also.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell said,ГўВҖВқ interrupted ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңand pray that, if you should
ever be in a similar predicament, he may do as much for you as he did
for me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat has he done?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert.

ГўВҖВңOh, nothing worth speaking of,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңM. de ChГғВўteau-Renaud
exaggerates.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot worth speaking of?ГўВҖВқ cried ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңlife is not worth
speaking of!ГўВҖВ”that is rather too philosophical, on my word, Morrel. It
is very well for you, who risk your life every day, but for me, who
only did so onceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe gather from all this, baron, that Captain Morrel saved your life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn what occasion?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңBeauchamp, my good fellow, you know I am starving,ГўВҖВқ said Debray: ГўВҖВңdo
not set him off on some long story.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I do not prevent your sitting down to table,ГўВҖВқ replied Beauchamp,
ГўВҖВңChГғВўteau-Renaud can tell us while we eat our breakfast.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңit is only a quarter past ten, and I expect
someone else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true, a diplomatist!ГўВҖВқ observed Debray.

ГўВҖВңDiplomat or not, I donГўВҖВҷt know; I only know that he charged himself on
my account with a mission, which he terminated so entirely to my
satisfaction, that had I been king, I should have instantly created him
knight of all my orders, even had I been able to offer him the Golden
Fleece and the Garter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, since we are not to sit down to table,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңtake a
glass of sherry, and tell us all about it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou all know that I had the fancy of going to Africa.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is a road your ancestors have traced for you,ГўВҖВқ said Albert
gallantly.

ГўВҖВңYes? but I doubt that your object was like theirsГўВҖВ”to rescue the Holy
Sepulchre.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are quite right, Beauchamp,ГўВҖВқ observed the young aristocrat. ГўВҖВңIt
was only to fight as an amateur. I cannot bear duelling ever since two
seconds, whom I had chosen to arrange an affair, forced me to break the
arm of one of my best friends, one whom you all knowГўВҖВ”poor Franz
dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңyou did fight some time ago; about what?ГўВҖВқ

20235m



ГўВҖВңThe devil take me, if I remember,ГўВҖВқ returned ChГғВўteau-Renaud. ГўВҖВңBut I
recollect perfectly one thing, that, being unwilling to let such
talents as mine sleep, I wished to try upon the Arabs the new pistols
that had been given to me. In consequence I embarked for Oran, and went
from thence to Constantine, where I arrived just in time to witness the
raising of the siege. I retreated with the rest, for eight-and-forty
hours. I endured the rain during the day, and the cold during the night
tolerably well, but the third morning my horse died of cold. Poor
bruteГўВҖВ”accustomed to be covered up and to have a stove in the stable,
the Arabian finds himself unable to bear ten degrees of cold in
Arabia.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs why you want to purchase my English horse,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңyou
think he will bear the cold better.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken, for I have made a vow never to return to Africa.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou were very much frightened, then?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңWell, yes, and I had good reason to be so,ГўВҖВқ replied ChГғВўteau-Renaud. ГўВҖВңI
was retreating on foot, for my horse was dead. Six Arabs came up, full
gallop, to cut off my head. I shot two with my double-barrelled gun,
and two more with my pistols, but I was then disarmed, and two were
still left; one seized me by the hair (that is why I now wear it so
short, for no one knows what may happen), the other swung a yataghan,
and I already felt the cold steel on my neck, when this gentleman whom
you see here charged them, shot the one who held me by the hair, and
cleft the skull of the other with his sabre. He had assigned himself
the task of saving a manГўВҖВҷs life that day; chance caused that man to be
myself. When I am rich I will order a statue of Chance from Klagmann or
Marochetti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, smiling, ГўВҖВңit was the 5th of September, the
anniversary of the day on which my father was miraculously preserved;
therefore, as far as it lies in my power, I endeavor to celebrate it by
someГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

20237m



ГўВҖВңHeroic action,ГўВҖВқ interrupted ChГғВўteau-Renaud. ГўВҖВңI was chosen. But that is
not allГўВҖВ”after rescuing me from the sword, he rescued me from the cold,
not by sharing his cloak with me, like St. Martin, but by giving me the
whole; then from hunger by sharing with meГўВҖВ”guess what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA Strasbourg pie?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңNo, his horse; of which we each of us ate a slice with a hearty
appetite. It was very hard.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe horse?ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, laughing.

ГўВҖВңNo, the sacrifice,ГўВҖВқ returned ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңask Debray if he would
sacrifice his English steed for a stranger?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot for a stranger,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңbut for a friend I might, perhaps.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI divined that you would become mine, count,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel;
ГўВҖВңbesides, as I had the honor to tell you, heroism or not, sacrifice or
not, that day I owed an offering to bad fortune in recompense for the
favors good fortune had on other days granted to us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe history to which M. Morrel alludes,ГўВҖВқ continued ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңis
an admirable one, which he will tell you some day when you are better
acquainted with him; today let us fill our stomachs, and not our
memories. What time do you breakfast, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt half-past ten.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray, taking out his watch.

ГўВҖВңOh, you will give me five minutesГўВҖВҷ grace,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf, ГўВҖВңfor I
also expect a preserver.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf myself,ГўВҖВқ cried Morcerf; ГўВҖВң_parbleu!_ do you think I cannot be saved
as well as anyone else, and that there are only Arabs who cut off
heads? Our breakfast is a philanthropic one, and we shall have at
tableГўВҖВ”at least, I hope soГўВҖВ”two benefactors of humanity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat shall we do?ГўВҖВқ said Debray; ГўВҖВңwe have only one Monthyon prize.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, it will be given to someone who has done nothing to deserve it,ГўВҖВқ
said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңthat is the way the Academy mostly escapes from the
dilemma.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where does he come from?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray. ГўВҖВңYou have already answered
the question once, but so vaguely that I venture to put it a second
time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI do not know; when I invited him three months
ago, he was then at Rome, but since that time who knows where he may
have gone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you think him capable of being exact?ГўВҖВқ demanded Debray.

ГўВҖВңI think him capable of everything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, with the five minutesГўВҖВҷ grace, we have only ten left.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will profit by them to tell you something about my guest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI beg pardon,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңare there any materials for an
article in what you are going to tell us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and for a most curious one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on, then, for I see I shall not get to the Chamber this morning,
and I must make up for it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was at Rome during the last Carnival.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe know that,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңYes, but what you do not know is that I was carried off by bandits.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere are no bandits,ГўВҖВқ cried Debray.

ГўВҖВңYes there are, and most hideous, or rather most admirable ones, for I
found them ugly enough to frighten me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, my dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңconfess that your cook is
behindhand, that the oysters have not arrived from Ostend or Marennes,
and that, like Madame de Maintenon, you are going to replace the dish
by a story. Say so at once; we are sufficiently well-bred to excuse
you, and to listen to your history, fabulous as it promises to be.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I say to you, fabulous as it may seem, I tell it as a true one
from beginning to end. The brigands had carried me off, and conducted
me to a gloomy spot, called the Catacombs of Saint Sebastian.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңI narrowly escaped catching a fever
there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I did more than that,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf, ГўВҖВңfor I caught one. I was
informed that I was prisoner until I paid the sum of 4,000 Roman
crownsГўВҖВ”about 24,000 francs. Unfortunately, I had not above 1,500. I was
at the end of my journey and of my credit. I wrote to FranzГўВҖВ”and were he
here he would confirm every wordГўВҖВ”I wrote then to Franz that if he did
not come with the four thousand crowns before six, at ten minutes past
I should have gone to join the blessed saints and glorious martyrs in
whose company I had the honor of being; and Signor Luigi Vampa, such
was the name of the chief of these bandits, would have scrupulously
kept his word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut Franz did come with the four thousand crowns,ГўВҖВқ said
ChГғВўteau-Renaud. ГўВҖВңA man whose name is Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay or Albert de
Morcerf has not much difficulty in procuring them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, he arrived accompanied simply by the guest I am going to present
to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, this gentleman is a Hercules killing Cacus, a Perseus freeing
Andromeda.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, he is a man about my own size.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңArmed to the teeth?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe had not even a knitting-needle.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut he paid your ransom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe said two words to the chief and I was free.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd they apologized to him for having carried you off?ГўВҖВқ said
Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңJust so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, he is a second Ariosto.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, his name is the Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is no Count of Monte CristoГўВҖВқ said Debray.

ГўВҖВңI do not think so,ГўВҖВқ added ChГғВўteau-Renaud, with the air of a man who
knows the whole of the European nobility perfectly.

ГўВҖВңDoes anyone know anything of a Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe comes possibly from the Holy Land, and one of his ancestors
possessed Calvary, as the Mortemarts did the Dead Sea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think I can assist your researches,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian. ГўВҖВңMonte Cristo
is a little island I have often heard spoken of by the old sailors my
father employedГўВҖВ”a grain of sand in the centre of the Mediterranean, an
atom in the infinite.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely!ГўВҖВқ cried Albert. ГўВҖВңWell, he of whom I speak is the lord and
master of this grain of sand, of this atom; he has purchased the title
of count somewhere in Tuscany.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is rich, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut that ought to be visible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is what deceives you, Debray.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not understand you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you read the _Arabian Nights_?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat a question!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, do you know if the persons you see there are rich or poor, if
their sacks of wheat are not rubies or diamonds? They seem like poor
fishermen, and suddenly they open some mysterious cavern filled with
the wealth of the Indies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich means?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich means that my Count of Monte Cristo is one of those fishermen.
He has even a name taken from the book, since he calls himself Sinbad
the Sailor, and has a cave filled with gold.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you have seen this cavern, Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңNo, but Franz has; for heavenГўВҖВҷs sake, not a word of this before him.
Franz went in with his eyes blindfolded, and was waited on by mutes and
by women to whom Cleopatra was a painted strumpet. Only he is not quite
sure about the women, for they did not come in until after he had taken
hashish, so that what he took for women might have been simply a row of
statues.ГўВҖВқ

The two young men looked at Morcerf as if to say,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңAre you mad, or are
you laughing at us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I also,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel thoughtfully, ГўВҖВңhave heard something like this
from an old sailor named Penelon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ cried Albert, ГўВҖВңit is very lucky that M. Morrel comes to aid me;
you are vexed, are you not, that he thus gives a clew to the
labyrinth?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңwhat you tell us is so extraordinary.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, because your ambassadors and your consuls do not tell you of
themГўВҖВ”they have no time. They are too much taken up with interfering in
the affairs of their countrymen who travel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow you get angry, and attack our poor agents. How will you have them
protect you? The Chamber cuts down their salaries every day, so that
now they have scarcely any. Will you be ambassador, Albert? I will send
you to Constantinople.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, lest on the first demonstration I make in favor of Mehemet Ali,
the Sultan send me the bowstring, and make my secretaries strangle me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou say very true,ГўВҖВқ responded Debray.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңbut this has nothing to do with the existence of
the Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu!_ everyone exists.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless, but not in the same way; everyone has not black slaves, a
princely retinue, an arsenal of weapons that would do credit to an
Arabian fortress, horses that cost six thousand francs apiece, and
Greek mistresses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you seen the Greek mistress?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have both seen and heard her. I saw her at the theatre, and heard
her one morning when I breakfasted with the count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe eats, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but so little, it can hardly be called eating.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe must be a vampire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLaugh, if you will; the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”, who knew Lord Ruthven, declared
that the count was a vampire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, capital,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp. ГўВҖВңFor a man not connected with
newspapers, here is the pendant to the famous sea-serpent of the
_Constitutionnel_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWild eyes, the iris of which contracts or dilates at pleasure,ГўВҖВқ said
Debray; ГўВҖВңfacial angle strongly developed, magnificent forehead, livid
complexion, black beard, sharp and white teeth, politeness
unexceptionable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust so, Lucien,ГўВҖВқ returned Morcerf; ГўВҖВңyou have described him feature
for feature. Yes, keen and cutting politeness. This man has often made
me shudder; and one day when we were viewing an execution, I thought I
should faint, more from hearing the cold and calm manner in which he
spoke of every description of torture, than from the sight of the
executioner and the culprit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid he not conduct you to the ruins of the Colosseum and suck your
blood?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңOr, having delivered you, make you sign a flaming parchment,
surrendering your soul to him as Esau did his birth-right?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRail on, rail on at your ease, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, somewhat
piqued. ГўВҖВңWhen I look at you Parisians, idlers on the Boulevard de Gand
or the Bois de Boulogne, and think of this man, it seems to me we are
not of the same race.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am highly flattered,ГўВҖВқ returned Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңAt the same time,ГўВҖВқ added ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңyour Count of Monte Cristo
is a very fine fellow, always excepting his little arrangements with
the Italian banditti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere are no Italian banditti,ГўВҖВқ said Debray.

ГўВҖВңNo vampire,ГўВҖВқ cried Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңNo Count of Monte CristoГўВҖВқ added Debray. ГўВҖВңThere is half-past ten
striking, Albert.ГўВҖВқ

20243m



ГўВҖВңConfess you have dreamed this, and let us sit down to breakfast,ГўВҖВқ
continued Beauchamp.

But the sound of the clock had not died away when Germain announced,
ГўВҖВңHis excellency the Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ The involuntary start
everyone gave proved how much MorcerfГўВҖВҷs narrative had impressed them,
and Albert himself could not wholly refrain from manifesting sudden
emotion. He had not heard a carriage stop in the street, or steps in
the antechamber; the door had itself opened noiselessly. The count
appeared, dressed with the greatest simplicity, but the most fastidious
dandy could have found nothing to cavil at in his toilet. Every article
of dressГўВҖВ”hat, coat, gloves, and bootsГўВҖВ”was from the first makers. He
seemed scarcely five-and-thirty. But what struck everybody was his
extreme resemblance to the portrait Debray had drawn. The count
advanced, smiling, into the centre of the room, and approached Albert,
who hastened towards him holding out his hand in a ceremonial manner.

ГўВҖВңPunctuality,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңis the politeness of kings,
according to one of your sovereigns, I think; but it is not the same
with travellers. However, I hope you will excuse the two or three
seconds I am behindhand; five hundred leagues are not to be
accomplished without some trouble, and especially in France, where, it
seems, it is forbidden to beat the postilions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear count,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңI was announcing your visit to some
of my friends, whom I had invited in consequence of the promise you did
me the honor to make, and whom I now present to you. They are the Count
of ChГғВўteau-Renaud, whose nobility goes back to the twelve peers, and
whose ancestors had a place at the Round Table; M. Lucien Debray,
private secretary to the minister of the interior; M. Beauchamp, an
editor of a paper, and the terror of the French government, but of
whom, in spite of his national celebrity, you perhaps have not heard in
Italy, since his paper is prohibited there; and M. Maximilian Morrel,
captain of Spahis.ГўВҖВқ

At this name the count, who had hitherto saluted everyone with
courtesy, but at the same time with coldness and formality, stepped a
pace forward, and a slight tinge of red colored his pale cheeks.

ГўВҖВңYou wear the uniform of the new French conquerors, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said he;
ГўВҖВңit is a handsome uniform.ГўВҖВқ

No one could have said what caused the countГўВҖВҷs voice to vibrate so
deeply, and what made his eye flash, which was in general so clear,
lustrous, and limpid when he pleased.

ГўВҖВңYou have never seen our Africans, count?ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңNever,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, who was by this time perfectly master of
himself again.

ГўВҖВңWell, beneath this uniform beats one of the bravest and noblest hearts
in the whole army.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, M. de Morcerf,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Morrel.

ГўВҖВңLet me go on, captain. And we have just heard,ГўВҖВқ continued Albert, ГўВҖВңof
a new deed of his, and so heroic a one, that, although I have seen him
today for the first time, I request you to allow me to introduce him as
my friend.ГўВҖВқ

At these words it was still possible to observe in Monte Cristo the
concentrated look, changing color, and slight trembling of the eyelid
that show emotion.

ГўВҖВңAh, you have a noble heart,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңso much the better.ГўВҖВқ

This exclamation, which corresponded to the countГўВҖВҷs own thought rather
than to what Albert was saying, surprised everybody, and especially
Morrel, who looked at Monte Cristo with wonder. But, at the same time,
the intonation was so soft that, however strange the speech might seem,
it was impossible to be offended at it.

20245m



ГўВҖВңWhy should he doubt it?ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp to ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңIn reality,ГўВҖВқ replied the latter, who, with his aristocratic glance and
his knowledge of the world, had penetrated at once all that was
penetrable in Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңAlbert has not deceived us, for the count
is a most singular being. What say you, Morrel!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, he has an open look about him that pleases me, in spite of
the singular remark he has made about me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңGermain informs me that breakfast is ready.
My dear count, allow me to show you the way.ГўВҖВқ They passed silently into
the breakfast-room, and everyone took his place.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said the count, seating himself, ГўВҖВңpermit me to make a
confession which must form my excuse for any improprieties I may
commit. I am a stranger, and a stranger to such a degree, that this is
the first time I have ever been at Paris. The French way of living is
utterly unknown to me, and up to the present time I have followed the
Eastern customs, which are entirely in contrast to the Parisian. I beg
you, therefore, to excuse if you find anything in me too Turkish, too
Italian, or too Arabian. Now, then, let us breakfast.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith what an air he says all this,ГўВҖВқ muttered Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңdecidedly he
is a great man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA great man in his own country,ГўВҖВқ added Debray.

ГўВҖВңA great man in every country, M. Debray,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

The count was, it may be remembered, a most temperate guest. Albert
remarked this, expressing his fears lest, at the outset, the Parisian
mode of life should displease the traveller in the most essential
point.

ГўВҖВңMy dear count,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI fear one thing, and that is, that the fare
of the Rue du Helder is not so much to your taste as that of the Piazza
di Spagna. I ought to have consulted you on the point, and have had
some dishes prepared expressly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you know me better,ГўВҖВқ returned the count, smiling, ГўВҖВңyou would not
give one thought of such a thing for a traveller like myself, who has
successively lived on macaroni at Naples, polenta at Milan, olla
podrida at Valencia, pilau at Constantinople, curry in India, and
swallowsГўВҖВҷ nests in China. I eat everywhere, and of everything, only I
eat but little; and today, that you reproach me with my want of
appetite, is my day of appetite, for I have not eaten since yesterday
morning.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat,ГўВҖВқ cried all the guests, ГўВҖВңyou have not eaten for four-and-twenty
hours?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңI was forced to go out of my road to obtain
some information near NГғВ®mes, so that I was somewhat late, and therefore
I did not choose to stop.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you ate in your carriage?ГўВҖВқ asked Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңNo, I slept, as I generally do when I am weary without having the
courage to amuse myself, or when I am hungry without feeling inclined
to eat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you can sleep when you please, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have a recipe for it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn infallible one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat would be invaluable to us in Africa, who have not always any food
to eat, and rarely anything to drink.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut, unfortunately, a recipe excellent for a
man like myself would be very dangerous applied to an army, which might
not awake when it was needed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMay we inquire what is this recipe?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI make no secret of it. It is a
mixture of excellent opium, which I fetched myself from Canton in order
to have it pure, and the best hashish which grows in the EastГўВҖВ”that is,
between the Tigris and the Euphrates. These two ingredients are mixed
in equal proportions, and formed into pills. Ten minutes after one is
taken, the effect is produced. Ask Baron Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay; I think he
tasted them one day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf, ГўВҖВңhe said something about it to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, who, as became a journalist, was very
incredulous, ГўВҖВңyou always carry this drug about you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlways.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWould it be an indiscretion to ask to see those precious pills?ГўВҖВқ
continued Beauchamp, hoping to take him at a disadvantage.

ГўВҖВңNo, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ returned the count; and he drew from his pocket a
marvellous casket, formed out of a single emerald and closed by a
golden lid which unscrewed and gave passage to a small greenish colored
pellet about the size of a pea. This ball had an acrid and penetrating
odor. There were four or five more in the emerald, which would contain
about a dozen. The casket passed around the table, but it was more to
examine the admirable emerald than to see the pills that it passed from
hand to hand.

ГўВҖВңAnd is it your cook who prepares these pills?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңOh, no, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI do not thus betray my
enjoyments to the vulgar. I am a tolerable chemist, and prepare my
pills myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is a magnificent emerald, and the largest I have ever seen,ГўВҖВқ said
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңalthough my mother has some remarkable family jewels.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI had three similar ones,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңI gave one to the
Sultan, who mounted it in his sabre; another to our holy father the
Pope, who had it set in his tiara, opposite to one nearly as large,
though not so fine, given by the Emperor Napoleon to his predecessor,
Pius VII. I kept the third for myself, and I had it hollowed out, which
reduced its value, but rendered it more commodious for the purpose I
intended.ГўВҖВқ

Everyone looked at Monte Cristo with astonishment; he spoke with so
much simplicity that it was evident he spoke the truth, or that he was
mad. However, the sight of the emerald made them naturally incline to
the former belief.

ГўВҖВңAnd what did these two sovereigns give you in exchange for these
magnificent presents?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray.

ГўВҖВңThe Sultan, the liberty of a woman,ГўВҖВқ replied the Count; ГўВҖВңthe Pope, the
life of a man; so that once in my life I have been as powerful as if
heaven had brought me into the world on the steps of a throne.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd it was Peppino you saved, was it not?ГўВҖВқ cried Morcerf; ГўВҖВңit was for
him that you obtained pardon?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps,ГўВҖВқ returned the count, smiling.

ГўВҖВңMy dear count, you have no idea what pleasure it gives me to hear you
speak thus,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf. ГўВҖВңI had announced you beforehand to my
friends as an enchanter of the _Arabian Nights_, a wizard of the Middle
Ages; but the Parisians are so subtle in paradoxes that they mistake
for caprices of the imagination the most incontestable truths, when
these truths do not form a part of their daily existence. For example,
here is Debray who reads, and Beauchamp who prints, every day, ГўВҖВҳA
member of the Jockey Club has been stopped and robbed on the
Boulevard;ГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВҳfour persons have been assassinated in the Rue St. DenisГўВҖВҷ
or ГўВҖВҳthe Faubourg St. Germain;ГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВҳten, fifteen, or twenty thieves, have
been arrested in a _cafГғВ©_ on the Boulevard du Temple, or in the Thermes
de Julien,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”and yet these same men deny the existence of the bandits in
the Maremma, the Campagna di Romana, or the Pontine Marshes. Tell them
yourself that I was taken by bandits, and that without your generous
intercession I should now have been sleeping in the Catacombs of St.
Sebastian, instead of receiving them in my humble abode in the Rue du
Helder.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңyou promised me never to mention that
circumstance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was not I who made that promise,ГўВҖВқ cried Morcerf; ГўВҖВңit must have been
someone else whom you have rescued in the same manner, and whom you
have forgotten. Pray speak of it, for I shall not only, I trust, relate
the little I do know, but also a great deal I do not know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt seems to me,ГўВҖВқ returned the count, smiling, ГўВҖВңthat you played a
sufficiently important part to know as well as myself what happened.ГўВҖВқ

20249m



ГўВҖВңWell, you promise me, if I tell all I know, to relate, in your turn,
all that I do not know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is but fair,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңfor three days I believed myself the object of
the attentions of a masque, whom I took for a descendant of Tullia or
PoppГғВҰa, while I was simply the object of the attentions of a
_contadina_, and I say _contadina_ to avoid saying peasant girl. What I
know is, that, like a fool, a greater fool than he of whom I spoke just
now, I mistook for this peasant girl a young bandit of fifteen or
sixteen, with a beardless chin and slim waist, and who, just as I was
about to imprint a chaste salute on his lips, placed a pistol to my
head, and, aided by seven or eight others, led, or rather dragged me,
to the Catacombs of St. Sebastian, where I found a highly educated
brigand chief perusing CГғВҰsarГўВҖВҷs _Commentaries_, and who deigned to leave
off reading to inform me, that unless the next morning, before six
oГўВҖВҷclock, four thousand piastres were paid into his account at his
bankerГўВҖВҷs, at a quarter past six I should have ceased to exist. The
letter is still to be seen, for it is in Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinayГўВҖВҷs possession,
signed by me, and with a postscript of M. Luigi Vampa. This is all I
know, but I know not, count, how you contrived to inspire so much
respect in the bandits of Rome who ordinarily have so little respect
for anything. I assure you, Franz and I were lost in admiration.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing more simple,ГўВҖВқ returned the count. ГўВҖВңI had known the famous
Vampa for more than ten years. When he was quite a child, and only a
shepherd, I gave him a few gold pieces for showing me my way, and he,
in order to repay me, gave me a poniard, the hilt of which he had
carved with his own hand, and which you may have seen in my collection
of arms. In after years, whether he had forgotten this interchange of
presents, which ought to have cemented our friendship, or whether he
did not recollect me, he sought to take me, but, on the contrary, it
was I who captured him and a dozen of his band. I might have handed him
over to Roman justice, which is somewhat expeditious, and which would
have been particularly so with him; but I did nothing of the sortГўВҖВ”I
suffered him and his band to depart.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith the condition that they should sin no more,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp,
laughing. ГўВҖВңI see they kept their promise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңupon the simple condition that
they should respect myself and my friends. Perhaps what I am about to
say may seem strange to you, who are socialists, and vaunt humanity and
your duty to your neighbor, but I never seek to protect a society which
does not protect me, and which I will even say, generally occupies
itself about me only to injure me; and thus by giving them a low place
in my esteem, and preserving a neutrality towards them, it is society
and my neighbor who are indebted to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBravo,ГўВҖВқ cried ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңyou are the first man I ever met
sufficiently courageous to preach egotism. Bravo, count, bravo!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is frank, at least,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. ГўВҖВңBut I am sure that the count
does not regret having once deviated from the principles he has so
boldly avowed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow have I deviated from those principles, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte
Cristo, who could not help looking at Morrel with so much intensity,
that two or three times the young man had been unable to sustain that
clear and piercing glance.

ГўВҖВңWhy, it seems to me,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel, ГўВҖВңthat in delivering M. de
Morcerf, whom you did not know, you did good to your neighbor and to
society.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf which he is the brightest ornament,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, drinking off a
glass of champagne.

ГўВҖВңMy dear count,ГўВҖВқ cried Morcerf, ГўВҖВңyou are at faultГўВҖВ”you, one of the most
formidable logicians I knowГўВҖВ”and you must see it clearly proved that
instead of being an egotist, you are a philanthropist. Ah, you call
yourself Oriental, a Levantine, Maltese, Indian, Chinese; your family
name is Monte Cristo; Sinbad the Sailor is your baptismal appellation,
and yet the first day you set foot in Paris you instinctively display
the greatest virtue, or rather the chief defect, of us eccentric
Parisians,ГўВҖВ”that is, you assume the vices you have not, and conceal the
virtues you possess.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear vicomte,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI do not see, in all I have
done, anything that merits, either from you or these gentlemen, the
pretended eulogies I have received. You were no stranger to me, for I
knew you from the time I gave up two rooms to you, invited you to
breakfast with me, lent you one of my carriages, witnessed the Carnival
in your company, and saw with you from a window in the Piazza del
Popolo the execution that affected you so much that you nearly fainted.
I will appeal to any of these gentlemen, could I leave my guest in the
hands of a hideous bandit, as you term him? Besides, you know, I had
the idea that you could introduce me into some of the Paris salons when
I came to France. You might some time ago have looked upon this
resolution as a vague project, but today you see it was a reality, and
you must submit to it under penalty of breaking your word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will keep it,ГўВҖВқ returned Morcerf; ГўВҖВңbut I fear that you will be much
disappointed, accustomed as you are to picturesque events and fantastic
horizons. Amongst us you will not meet with any of those episodes with
which your adventurous existence has so familiarized you; our
Chimborazo is Mortmartre, our Himalaya is Mount ValГғВ©rien, our Great
Desert is the plain of Grenelle, where they are now boring an artesian
well to water the caravans. We have plenty of thieves, though not so
many as is said; but these thieves stand in far more dread of a
policeman than a lord. France is so prosaic, and Paris so civilized a
city, that you will not find in its eighty-five departmentsГўВҖВ”I say
eighty-five, because I do not include CorsicaГўВҖВ”you will not find, then,
in these eighty-five departments a single hill on which there is not a
telegraph, or a grotto in which the commissary of police has not put up
a gaslamp. There is but one service I can render you, and for that I
place myself entirely at your orders, that is, to present, or make my
friends present, you everywhere; besides, you have no need of anyone to
introduce youГўВҖВ”with your name, and your fortune, and your talentГўВҖВқ (Monte
Cristo bowed with a somewhat ironical smile) ГўВҖВңyou can present yourself
everywhere, and be well received. I can be useful in one way onlyГўВҖВ”if
knowledge of Parisian habits, of the means of rendering yourself
comfortable, or of the bazaars, can assist, you may depend upon me to
find you a fitting dwelling here. I do not dare offer to share my
apartments with you, as I shared yours at RomeГўВҖВ”I, who do not profess
egotism, but am yet egotist _par excellence_; for, except myself, these
rooms would not hold a shadow more, unless that shadow were feminine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthat is a most conjugal reservation; I recollect
that at Rome you said something of a projected marriage. May I
congratulate you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe affair is still in projection.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd he who says in ГўВҖВҳprojection,ГўВҖВҷ means already decided,ГўВҖВқ said Debray.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf, ГўВҖВңmy father is most anxious about it; and I hope,
ere long, to introduce you, if not to my wife, at least to my
betrothedГўВҖВ”Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEugГғВ©nie Danglars,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңtell me, is not her father
Baron Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ returned Morcerf, ГўВҖВңa baron of a new creation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat matter,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңif he has rendered the State services
which merit this distinction?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEnormous ones,ГўВҖВқ answered Beauchamp. ГўВҖВңAlthough in reality a Liberal, he
negotiated a loan of six millions for Charles X., in 1829, who made him
a baron and chevalier of the Legion of Honor; so that he wears the
ribbon, not, as you would think, in his waistcoat-pocket, but at his
button-hole.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Morcerf, laughing, ГўВҖВңBeauchamp, Beauchamp, keep that
for the _Corsaire_ or the _Charivari_, but spare my future
father-in-law before me.ГўВҖВқ Then, turning to Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңYou just now
spoke his name as if you knew the baron?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know him,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut I shall probably soon
make his acquaintance, for I have a credit opened with him by the house
of Richard & Blount, of London, Arstein & Eskeles of Vienna, and
Thomson & French at Rome.ГўВҖВқ As he pronounced the two last names, the
count glanced at Maximilian Morrel. If the stranger expected to produce
an effect on Morrel, he was not mistakenГўВҖВ”Maximilian started as if he
had been electrified.

ГўВҖВңThomson & French,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңdo you know this house, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ

20253m



ГўВҖВңThey are my bankers in the capital of the Christian world,ГўВҖВқ returned
the count quietly. ГўВҖВңCan my influence with them be of any service to
you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, count, you could assist me perhaps in researches which have been,
up to the present, fruitless. This house, in past years, did ours a
great service, and has, I know not for what reason, always denied
having rendered us this service.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall be at your orders,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo bowing.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ continued Morcerf, ГўВҖВң_ГғВ  propos_ of Danglars,ГўВҖВ”we have strangely
wandered from the subject. We were speaking of a suitable habitation
for the Count of Monte Cristo. Come, gentlemen, let us all propose some
place. Where shall we lodge this new guest in our great capital?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFaubourg Saint-Germain,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud. ГўВҖВңThe count will find
there a charming hotel, with a court and garden.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah! ChГғВўteau-Renaud,ГўВҖВқ returned Debray, ГўВҖВңyou only know your dull and
gloomy Faubourg Saint-Germain; do not pay any attention to him,
countГўВҖВ”live in the ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin, thatГўВҖВҷs the real centre of Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBoulevard de lГўВҖВҷOpГғВ©ra,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңthe second floorГўВҖВ”a house with
a balcony. The count will have his cushions of silver cloth brought
there, and as he smokes his chibouque, see all Paris pass before him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have no idea, then, Morrel?ГўВҖВқ asked ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңyou do not
propose anything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ returned the young man, smiling; ГўВҖВңon the contrary, I have
one, but I expected the count would be tempted by one of the brilliant
proposals made him, yet as he has not replied to any of them, I will
venture to offer him a suite of apartments in a charming hotel, in the
Pompadour style, that my sister has inhabited for a year, in the Rue
Meslay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have a sister?ГўВҖВқ asked the count.

ГўВҖВңYes, monsieur, a most excellent sister.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMarried?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNearly nine years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHappy?ГўВҖВқ asked the count again.

ГўВҖВңAs happy as it is permitted to a human creature to be,ГўВҖВқ replied
Maximilian. ГўВҖВңShe married the man she loved, who remained faithful to us
in our fallen fortunesГўВҖВ”Emmanuel Herbaut.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo smiled imperceptibly.

ГўВҖВңI live there during my leave of absence,ГўВҖВқ continued Maximilian; ГўВҖВңand I
shall be, together with my brother-in-law Emmanuel, at the disposition
of the Count, whenever he thinks fit to honor us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne minute,ГўВҖВқ cried Albert, without giving Monte Cristo the time to
reply. ГўВҖВңTake care, you are going to immure a traveller, Sinbad the
Sailor, a man who comes to see Paris; you are going to make a patriarch
of him.ГўВҖВқ

20255m



ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңmy sister is five-and-twenty, my brother-in-law
is thirty, they are gay, young, and happy. Besides, the count will be
in his own house, and only see them when he thinks fit to do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThanks, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI shall content myself with
being presented to your sister and her husband, if you will do me the
honor to introduce me; but I cannot accept the offer of anyone of these
gentlemen, since my habitation is already prepared.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat,ГўВҖВқ cried Morcerf; ГўВҖВңyou are, then, going to a hotelГўВҖВ”that will be
very dull for you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas I so badly lodged at Rome?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo smiling.

ГўВҖВң_Parbleu!_ at Rome you spent fifty thousand piastres in furnishing
your apartments, but I presume that you are not disposed to spend a
similar sum every day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not that which deterred me,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut as I
determined to have a house to myself, I sent on my valet de chambre,
and he ought by this time to have bought the house and furnished it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you have, then, a valet de chambre who knows Paris?ГўВҖВқ said
Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңIt is the first time he has ever been in Paris. He is black, and
cannot speak,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңIt is Ali!ГўВҖВқ cried Albert, in the midst of the general surprise.

ГўВҖВңYes, Ali himself, my Nubian mute, whom you saw, I think, at Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf; ГўВҖВңI recollect him perfectly. But how could
you charge a Nubian to purchase a house, and a mute to furnish it?ГўВҖВ”he
will do everything wrong.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUndeceive yourself, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI am quite sure,
that, on the contrary, he will choose everything as I wish. He knows my
tastes, my caprices, my wants. He has been here a week, with the
instinct of a hound, hunting by himself. He will arrange everything for
me. He knew, that I should arrive today at ten oГўВҖВҷclock; he was waiting
for me at nine at the BarriГғВЁre de Fontainebleau. He gave me this paper;
it contains the number of my new abode; read it yourself,ГўВҖВқ and Monte
Cristo passed a paper to Albert.

ГўВҖВңAh, that is really original,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңAnd very princely,ГўВҖВқ added ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңWhat, do you not know your house?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI told you I did not wish to be behind my
time; I dressed myself in the carriage, and descended at the viscountГўВҖВҷs
door.ГўВҖВқ The young men looked at each other; they did not know if it was
a comedy Monte Cristo was playing, but every word he uttered had such
an air of simplicity, that it was impossible to suppose what he said
was falseГўВҖВ”besides, why should he tell a falsehood?

ГўВҖВңWe must content ourselves, then,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңwith rendering the
count all the little services in our power. I, in my quality of
journalist, open all the theatres to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThanks, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңmy steward has orders to
take a box at each theatre.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs your steward also a Nubian?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray.

ГўВҖВңNo, he is a countryman of yours, if a Corsican is a countryman of
anyoneГўВҖВҷs. But you know him, M. de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it that excellent M. Bertuccio, who understands hiring windows so
well?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you saw him the day I had the honor of receiving you; he has been
a soldier, a smugglerГўВҖВ”in fact, everything. I would not be quite sure
that he has not been mixed up with the police for some trifleГўВҖВ”a stab
with a knife, for instance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you have chosen this honest citizen for your steward,ГўВҖВқ said
Debray. ГўВҖВңOf how much does he rob you every year?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my word,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңnot more than another. I am sure he
answers my purpose, knows no impossibility, and so I keep him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ continued ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңsince you have an establishment, a
steward, and a hotel in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, you only want a mistress.ГўВҖВқ
Albert smiled. He thought of the fair Greek he had seen in the countГўВҖВҷs
box at the Argentina and Valle theatres.

ГўВҖВңI have something better than that,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI have a
slave. You procure your mistresses from the opera, the Vaudeville, or
the VariГғВ©tГғВ©s; I purchased mine at Constantinople; it cost me more, but
I have nothing to fear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you forget,ГўВҖВқ replied Debray, laughing, ГўВҖВңthat we are Franks by name
and franks by nature, as King Charles said, and that the moment she
puts her foot in France your slave becomes free.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho will tell her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe first person who sees her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe only speaks Romaic.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is different.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut at least we shall see her,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңor do you keep
eunuchs as well as mutes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI do not carry brutalism so far.
Everyone who surrounds me is free to quit me, and when they leave me
will no longer have any need of me or anyone else; it is for that
reason, perhaps, that they do not quit me.ГўВҖВқ

They had long since passed to dessert and cigars.

ГўВҖВңMy dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, rising, ГўВҖВңit is half-past two. Your guest
is charming, but you leave the best company to go into the worst
sometimes. I must return to the ministerГўВҖВҷs. I will tell him of the
count, and we shall soon know who he is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake care,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert; ГўВҖВңno one has been able to accomplish
that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, we have three millions for our police; it is true they are almost
always spent beforehand, but, no matter, we shall still have fifty
thousand francs to spend for this purpose.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd when you know, will you tell me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI promise you. _Au revoir_, Albert. Gentlemen, good morning.ГўВҖВқ

As he left the room, Debray called out loudly, ГўВҖВңMy carriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBravo,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp to Albert; ГўВҖВңI shall not go to the Chamber, but
I have something better to offer my readers than a speech of M.
Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor heavenГўВҖВҷs sake, Beauchamp,ГўВҖВқ returned Morcerf, ГўВҖВңdo not deprive me of
the merit of introducing him everywhere. Is he not peculiar?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is more than that,ГўВҖВқ replied ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңhe is one of the most
extraordinary men I ever saw in my life. Are you coming, Morrel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDirectly I have given my card to the count, who has promised to pay us
a visit at Rue Meslay, No. 14.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe sure I shall not fail to do so,ГўВҖВқ returned the count, bowing.

And Maximilian Morrel left the room with the Baron de ChГғВўteau-Renaud,
leaving Monte Cristo alone with Morcerf.



 Chapter 41. The Presentation

When Albert found himself alone with Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңMy dear count,ГўВҖВқ
said he, ГўВҖВңallow me to commence my services as _cicerone_ by showing you
a specimen of a bachelorГўВҖВҷs apartment. You, who are accustomed to the
palaces of Italy, can amuse yourself by calculating in how many square
feet a young man who is not the worst lodged in Paris can live. As we
pass from one room to another, I will open the windows to let you
breathe.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo had already seen the breakfast-room and the salon on the
ground floor. Albert led him first to his _atelier_, which was, as we
have said, his favorite apartment. Monte Cristo quickly appreciated all
that Albert had collected hereГўВҖВ”old cabinets, Japanese porcelain,
Oriental stuffs, Venetian glass, arms from all parts of the
worldГўВҖВ”everything was familiar to him; and at the first glance he
recognized their date, their country, and their origin.

Morcerf had expected he should be the guide; on the contrary, it was he
who, under the countГўВҖВҷs guidance, followed a course of archГғВҰology,
mineralogy, and natural history.

They descended to the first floor; Albert led his guest into the salon.
The salon was filled with the works of modern artists; there were
landscapes by DuprГғВ©, with their long reeds and tall trees, their lowing
oxen and marvellous skies; DelacroixГўВҖВҷs Arabian cavaliers, with their
long white burnouses, their shining belts, their damasked arms, their
horses, who tore each other with their teeth while their riders
contended fiercely with their maces; _aquarelles_ of Boulanger,
representing Notre Dame de Paris with that vigor that makes the artist
the rival of the poet; there were paintings by Diaz, who makes his
flowers more beautiful than flowers, his suns more brilliant than the
sun; designs by Decamp, as vividly colored as those of Salvator Rosa,
but more poetic; _pastels_ by Giraud and MГғВјller, representing children
like angels and women with the features of a virgin; sketches torn from
the album of DauzatsГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВңTravels in the East,ГўВҖВқ that had been made in a
few seconds on the saddle of a camel, or beneath the dome of a
mosqueГўВҖВ”in a word, all that modern art can give in exchange and as
recompense for the art lost and gone with ages long since past.

Albert expected to have something new this time to show to the
traveller, but, to his great surprise, the latter, without seeking for
the signatures, many of which, indeed, were only initials, named
instantly the author of every picture in such a manner that it was easy
to see that each name was not only known to him, but that each style
associated with it had been appreciated and studied by him. From the
salon they passed into the bedchamber; it was a model of taste and
simple elegance. A single portrait, signed by LГғВ©opold Robert, shone in
its carved and gilded frame. This portrait attracted the Count of Monte
CristoГўВҖВҷs attention, for he made three rapid steps in the chamber, and
stopped suddenly before it.

It was the portrait of a young woman of five or six-and-twenty, with a
dark complexion, and light and lustrous eyes, veiled beneath long
lashes. She wore the picturesque costume of the Catalan fisherwomen, a
red and black bodice, and golden pins in her hair. She was looking at
the sea, and her form was outlined on the blue ocean and sky. The light
was so faint in the room that Albert did not perceive the pallor that
spread itself over the countГўВҖВҷs visage, or the nervous heaving of his
chest and shoulders. Silence prevailed for an instant, during which
Monte Cristo gazed intently on the picture.

ГўВҖВңYou have there a most charming mistress, viscount,ГўВҖВқ said the count in
a perfectly calm tone; ГўВҖВңand this costumeГўВҖВ”a ball costume,
doubtlessГўВҖВ”becomes her admirably.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert, ГўВҖВңI would never forgive you this
mistake if you had seen another picture beside this. You do not know my
mother; she it is whom you see here. She had her portrait painted thus
six or eight years ago. This costume is a fancy one, it appears, and
the resemblance is so great that I think I still see my mother the same
as she was in 1830. The countess had this portrait painted during the
countГўВҖВҷs absence. She doubtless intended giving him an agreeable
surprise; but, strange to say, this portrait seemed to displease my
father, and the value of the picture, which is, as you see, one of the
best works of LГғВ©opold Robert, could not overcome his dislike to it. It
is true, between ourselves, that M. de Morcerf is one of the most
assiduous peers at the Luxembourg, a general renowned for theory, but a
most mediocre amateur of art. It is different with my mother, who
paints exceedingly well, and who, unwilling to part with so valuable a
picture, gave it to me to put here, where it would be less likely to
displease M. de Morcerf, whose portrait, by Gros, I will also show you.
Excuse my talking of family matters, but as I shall have the honor of
introducing you to the count, I tell you this to prevent you making any
allusions to this picture. The picture seems to have a malign
influence, for my mother rarely comes here without looking at it, and
still more rarely does she look at it without weeping. This
disagreement is the only one that has ever taken place between the
count and countess, who are still as much united, although married more
than twenty years, as on the first day of their wedding.ГўВҖВқ

20261m



Monte Cristo glanced rapidly at Albert, as if to seek a hidden meaning
in his words, but it was evident the young man uttered them in the
simplicity of his heart.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңthat you have seen all my treasures, allow me to
offer them to you, unworthy as they are. Consider yourself as in your
own house, and to put yourself still more at your ease, pray accompany
me to the apartments of M. de Morcerf, he whom I wrote from Rome an
account of the services you rendered me, and to whom I announced your
promised visit, and I may say that both the count and countess
anxiously desire to thank you in person. You are somewhat _blasГғВ©_ I
know, and family scenes have not much effect on Sinbad the Sailor, who
has seen so many others. However, accept what I propose to you as an
initiation into Parisian lifeГўВҖВ”a life of politeness, visiting, and
introductions.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo bowed without making any answer; he accepted the offer
without enthusiasm and without regret, as one of those conventions of
society which every gentleman looks upon as a duty. Albert summoned his
servant, and ordered him to acquaint M. and Madame de Morcerf of the
arrival of the Count of Monte Cristo. Albert followed him with the
count. When they arrived at the antechamber, above the door was visible
a shield, which, by its rich ornaments and its harmony with the rest of
the furniture, indicated the importance the owner attached to this
blazon. Monte Cristo stopped and examined it attentively.

ГўВҖВңAzure seven merlets, or, placed bender,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңThese are,
doubtless, your family arms? Except the knowledge of blazons, that
enables me to decipher them, I am very ignorant of heraldryГўВҖВ”I, a count
of a fresh creation, fabricated in Tuscany by the aid of a commandery
of St. Stephen, and who would not have taken the trouble had I not been
told that when you travel much it is necessary. Besides, you must have
something on the panels of your carriage, to escape being searched by
the custom-house officers. Excuse my putting such a question to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not indiscreet,ГўВҖВқ returned Morcerf, with the simplicity of
conviction. ГўВҖВңYou have guessed rightly. These are our arms, that is,
those of my father, but they are, as you see, joined to another shield,
which has gules, a silver tower, which are my motherГўВҖВҷs. By her side I
am Spanish, but the family of Morcerf is French, and, I have heard, one
of the oldest of the south of France.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңthese blazons prove that. Almost all the
armed pilgrims that went to the Holy Land took for their arms either a
cross, in honor of their mission, or birds of passage, in sign of the
long voyage they were about to undertake, and which they hoped to
accomplish on the wings of faith. One of your ancestors had joined the
Crusades, and supposing it to be only that of St. Louis, that makes you
mount to the thirteenth century, which is tolerably ancient.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is possible,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf; ГўВҖВңmy father has in his study a
genealogical tree which will tell you all that, and on which I made
commentaries that would have greatly edified dГўВҖВҷHozier and Jaucourt. At
present I no longer think of it, and yet I must tell you that we are
beginning to occupy ourselves greatly with these things under our
popular government.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, your government would do well to choose from the past
something better than the things that I have noticed on your monuments,
and which have no heraldic meaning whatever. As for you, viscount,ГўВҖВқ
continued Monte Cristo to Morcerf, ГўВҖВңyou are more fortunate than the
government, for your arms are really beautiful, and speak to the
imagination. Yes, you are at once from Provence and Spain; that
explains, if the portrait you showed me be like, the dark hue I so much
admired on the visage of the noble Catalan.ГўВҖВқ

It would have required the penetration of Г…В’dipus or the Sphinx to have
divined the irony the count concealed beneath these words, apparently
uttered with the greatest politeness. Morcerf thanked him with a smile,
and pushed open the door above which were his arms, and which, as we
have said, opened into the salon. In the most conspicuous part of the
salon was another portrait. It was that of a man, from five to
eight-and-thirty, in the uniform of a general officer, wearing the
double epaulet of heavy bullion, that indicates superior rank, the
ribbon of the Legion of Honor around his neck, which showed he was a
commander, and on the right breast, the star of a grand officer of the
order of the Saviour, and on the left that of the grand cross of
Charles III., which proved that the person represented by the picture
had served in the wars of Greece and Spain, or, what was just the same
thing as regarded decorations, had fulfilled some diplomatic mission in
the two countries.

Monte Cristo was engaged in examining this portrait with no less care
than he had bestowed upon the other, when another door opened, and he
found himself opposite to the Count of Morcerf in person.

He was a man of forty to forty-five years, but he seemed at least
fifty, and his black moustache and eyebrows contrasted strangely with
his almost white hair, which was cut short, in the military fashion. He
was dressed in plain clothes, and wore at his button-hole the ribbons
of the different orders to which he belonged.

He entered with a tolerably dignified step, and some little haste.
Monte Cristo saw him advance towards him without making a single step.
It seemed as if his feet were rooted to the ground, and his eyes on the
Count of Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңFather,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңI have the honor of presenting to you
the Count of Monte Cristo, the generous friend whom I had the good
fortune to meet in the critical situation of which I have told you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are most welcome, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said the Count of Morcerf, saluting
Monte Cristo with a smile, ГўВҖВңand monsieur has rendered our house, in
preserving its only heir, a service which insures him our eternal
gratitude.ГўВҖВқ

As he said these words, the count of Morcerf pointed to a chair, while
he seated himself in another opposite the window.

Monte Cristo, in taking the seat Morcerf offered him, placed himself in
such a manner as to remain concealed in the shadow of the large velvet
curtains, and read on the careworn and livid features of the count a
whole history of secret griefs written in each wrinkle time had planted
there.

ГўВҖВңThe countess,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңwas at her toilet when she was informed
of the visit she was about to receive. She will, however, be in the
salon in ten minutes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is a great honor to me,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңto be thus, on the
first day of my arrival in Paris, brought in contact with a man whose
merit equals his reputation, and to whom fortune has for once been
equitable, but has she not still on the plains of Mitidja, or in the
mountains of Atlas, a marshalГўВҖВҷs staff to offer you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf, reddening slightly, ГўВҖВңI have left the service,
monsieur. Made a peer at the Restoration, I served through the first
campaign under the orders of Marshal Bourmont. I could, therefore,
expect a higher rank, and who knows what might have happened had the
elder branch remained on the throne? But the Revolution of July was, it
seems, sufficiently glorious to allow itself to be ungrateful, and it
was so for all services that did not date from the imperial period. I
tendered my resignation, for when you have gained your epaulets on the
battle-field, you do not know how to manГ…В“uvre on the slippery grounds
of the salons. I have hung up my sword, and cast myself into politics.
I have devoted myself to industry; I study the useful arts. During the
twenty years I served, I often wished to do so, but I had not the
time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThese are the ideas that render your nation superior to any other,ГўВҖВқ
returned Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңA gentleman of high birth, possessor of an
ample fortune, you have consented to gain your promotion as an obscure
soldier, step by stepГўВҖВ”this is uncommon; then become general, peer of
France, commander of the Legion of Honor, you consent to again commence
a second apprenticeship, without any other hope or any other desire
than that of one day becoming useful to your fellow-creatures; this,
indeed, is praiseworthy,ГўВҖВ”nay, more, it is sublime.ГўВҖВқ

20265m



Albert looked on and listened with astonishment; he was not used to see
Monte Cristo give vent to such bursts of enthusiasm.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ continued the stranger, doubtless to dispel the slight cloud
that covered MorcerfГўВҖВҷs brow, ГўВҖВңwe do not act thus in Italy; we grow
according to our race and our species, and we pursue the same lines,
and often the same uselessness, all our lives.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said the Count of Morcerf, ГўВҖВңfor a man of your merit,
Italy is not a country, and France opens her arms to receive you;
respond to her call. France will not, perhaps, be always ungrateful.
She treats her children ill, but she always welcomes strangers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, father,ГўВҖВқ said Albert with a smile, ГўВҖВңit is evident you do not know
the Count of Monte Cristo; he despises all honors, and contents himself
with those written on his passport.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is the most just remark,ГўВҖВқ replied the stranger, ГўВҖВңI ever heard
made concerning myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have been free to choose your career,ГўВҖВқ observed the Count of
Morcerf, with a sigh; ГўВҖВңand you have chosen the path strewed with
flowers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo with one of those smiles
that a painter could never represent or a physiologist analyze.

ГўВҖВңIf I did not fear to fatigue you,ГўВҖВқ said the general, evidently charmed
with the countГўВҖВҷs manners, ГўВҖВңI would have taken you to the Chamber; there
is a debate very curious to those who are strangers to our modern
senators.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall be most grateful, monsieur, if you will, at some future time,
renew your offer, but I have been flattered with the hope of being
introduced to the countess, and I will therefore wait.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, here is my mother,ГўВҖВқ cried the viscount.

Monte Cristo, turned round hastily, and saw Madame de Morcerf at the
entrance of the salon, at the door opposite to that by which her
husband had entered, pale and motionless; when Monte Cristo turned
round, she let fall her arm, which for some unknown reason had been
resting on the gilded door-post. She had been there some moments, and
had heard the last words of the visitor. The latter rose and bowed to
the countess, who inclined herself without speaking.

ГўВҖВңAh! good heavens, madame,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңare you ill, or is it the
heat of the room that affects you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you ill, mother?ГўВҖВқ cried the viscount, springing towards her.

She thanked them both with a smile.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ returned she, ГўВҖВңbut I feel some emotion on seeing, for the first
time, the man without whose intervention we should have been in tears
and desolation. Monsieur,ГўВҖВқ continued the countess, advancing with the
majesty of a queen, ГўВҖВңI owe to you the life of my son, and for this I
bless you. Now, I thank you for the pleasure you give me in thus
affording me the opportunity of thanking you as I have blessed you,
from the bottom of my heart.ГўВҖВқ

The count bowed again, but lower than before; he was even paler than
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthe count and yourself recompense too generously a
simple action. To save a man, to spare a fatherГўВҖВҷs feelings, or a
motherГўВҖВҷs sensibility, is not to do a good action, but a simple deed of
humanity.ГўВҖВқ

At these words, uttered with the most exquisite sweetness and
politeness, Madame de Morcerf replied:

ГўВҖВңIt is very fortunate for my son, monsieur, that he found such a
friend, and I thank God that things are thus.ГўВҖВқ

And MercГғВ©dГғВЁs raised her fine eyes to heaven with so fervent an
expression of gratitude, that the count fancied he saw tears in them.
M. de Morcerf approached her.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңI have already made my excuses to the count for
quitting him, and I pray you to do so also. The sitting commences at
two; it is now three, and I am to speak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo, then, and monsieur and I will strive our best to forget your
absence,ГўВҖВқ replied the countess, with the same tone of deep feeling.
ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ continued she, turning to Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңwill you do us the
honor of passing the rest of the day with us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBelieve me, madame, I feel most grateful for your kindness, but I got
out of my travelling carriage at your door this morning, and I am
ignorant how I am installed in Paris, which I scarcely know; this is
but a trifling inquietude, I know, but one that may be appreciated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe shall have the pleasure another time,ГўВҖВқ said the countess; ГўВҖВңyou
promise that?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo inclined himself without answering, but the gesture might
pass for assent.

ГўВҖВңI will not detain you, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ continued the countess; ГўВҖВңI would not
have our gratitude become indiscreet or importunate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear Count,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI will endeavor to return your
politeness at Rome, and place my coupГғВ© at your disposal until your own
be ready.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA thousand thanks for your kindness, viscount,ГўВҖВқ returned the Count of
Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңbut I suppose that M. Bertuccio has suitably employed the
four hours and a half I have given him, and that I shall find a
carriage of some sort ready at the door.ГўВҖВқ

Albert was used to the countГўВҖВҷs manner of proceeding; he knew that, like
Nero, he was in search of the impossible, and nothing astonished him,
but wishing to judge with his own eyes how far the countГўВҖВҷs orders had
been executed, he accompanied him to the door of the house. Monte
Cristo was not deceived. As soon as he appeared in the Count of
MorcerfГўВҖВҷs antechamber, a footman, the same who at Rome had brought the
countГўВҖВҷs card to the two young men, and announced his visit, sprang into
the vestibule, and when he arrived at the door the illustrious
traveller found his carriage awaiting him. It was a _coupГғВ©_ of KollerГўВҖВҷs
building, and with horses and harness for which Drake had, to the
knowledge of all the lions of Paris, refused on the previous day seven
hundred guineas.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ said the count to Albert, ГўВҖВңI do not ask you to accompany me
to my house, as I can only show you a habitation fitted up in a hurry,
and I have, as you know, a reputation to keep up as regards not being
taken by surprise. Give me, therefore, one more day before I invite
you; I shall then be certain not to fail in my hospitality.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you ask me for a day, count, I know what to anticipate; it will not
be a house I shall see, but a palace. You have decidedly some genius at
your control.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, spread that idea,ГўВҖВқ replied the Count of Monte Cristo,
putting his foot on the velvet-lined steps of his splendid carriage,
ГўВҖВңand that will be worth something to me among the ladies.ГўВҖВқ

As he spoke, he sprang into the vehicle, the door was closed, but not
so rapidly that Monte Cristo failed to perceive the almost
imperceptible movement which stirred the curtains of the apartment in
which he had left Madame de Morcerf.

When Albert returned to his mother, he found her in the boudoir
reclining in a large velvet armchair, the whole room so obscure that
only the shining spangle, fastened here and there to the drapery, and
the angles of the gilded frames of the pictures, showed with some
degree of brightness in the gloom. Albert could not see the face of the
countess, as it was covered with a thin veil she had put on her head,
and which fell over her features in misty folds, but it seemed to him
as though her voice had altered. He could distinguish amid the perfumes
of the roses and heliotropes in the flower-stands, the sharp and
fragrant odor of volatile salts, and he noticed in one of the chased
cups on the mantle-piece the countessГўВҖВҷs smelling-bottle, taken from its
shagreen case, and exclaimed in a tone of uneasiness, as he entered:

ГўВҖВңMy dear mother, have you been ill during my absence?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, Albert, but you know these roses, tuberoses, and
orange-flowers throw out at first, before one is used to them, such
violent perfumes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, my dear mother,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, putting his hand to the bell,
ГўВҖВңthey must be taken into the antechamber. You are really ill, and just
now were so pale as you came into the roomГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas I pale, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; a pallor that suits you admirably, mother, but which did not the
less alarm my father and myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid your father speak of it?ГўВҖВқ inquired MercГғВ©dГғВЁs eagerly.

ГўВҖВңNo, madame; but do you not remember that he spoke of the fact to you?ГўВҖВқ

20269m



ГўВҖВңYes, I do remember,ГўВҖВқ replied the countess.

A servant entered, summoned by AlbertГўВҖВҷs ring of the bell.

ГўВҖВңTake these flowers into the anteroom or dressing-room,ГўВҖВқ said the
viscount; ГўВҖВңthey make the countess ill.ГўВҖВқ

The footman obeyed his orders. A long pause ensued, which lasted until
all the flowers were removed.

ГўВҖВңWhat is this name of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ inquired the countess, when the
servant had taken away the last vase of flowers, ГўВҖВңis it a family name,
or the name of the estate, or a simple title?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe, mother, it is merely a title. The count purchased an island
in the Tuscan archipelago, and, as he told you today, has founded a
commandery. You know the same thing was done for Saint Stephen of
Florence, Saint George Constantinian of Parma, and even for the Order
of Malta. Except this, he has no pretension to nobility, and calls
himself a chance count, although the general opinion at Rome is that
the count is a man of very high distinction.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis manners are admirable,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, ГўВҖВңat least, as far as I
could judge in the few minutes he remained here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey are perfect mother, so perfect, that they surpass by far all I
have known in the leading aristocracy of the three proudest nobilities
of EuropeГўВҖВ”the English, the Spanish, and the German.ГўВҖВқ

The countess paused a moment; then, after a slight hesitation, she
resumed.

ГўВҖВңYou have seen, my dear AlbertГўВҖВ”I ask the question as a motherГўВҖВ”you have
seen M. de Monte Cristo in his house, you are quicksighted, have much
knowledge of the world, more tact than is usual at your age, do you
think the count is really what he appears to be?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat does he appear to be?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you have just said,ГўВҖВ”a man of high distinction.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI told you, my dear mother, he was esteemed such.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what is your own opinion, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI must tell you that I have not come to any decided opinion respecting
him, but I think him a Maltese.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not ask you of his origin but what he is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! what he is; that is quite another thing. I have seen so many
remarkable things in him, that if you would have me really say what I
think, I shall reply that I really do look upon him as one of ByronГўВҖВҷs
heroes, whom misery has marked with a fatal brand; some Manfred, some
Lara, some Werner, one of those wrecks, as it were, of some ancient
family, who, disinherited of their patrimony, have achieved one by the
force of their adventurous genius, which has placed them above the laws
of society.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou sayГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI say that Monte Cristo is an island in the midst of the
Mediterranean, without inhabitants or garrison, the resort of smugglers
of all nations, and pirates of every flag. Who knows whether or not
these industrious worthies do not pay to their feudal lord some dues
for his protection?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is possible,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, reflecting.

ГўВҖВңNever mind,ГўВҖВқ continued the young man, ГўВҖВңsmuggler or not, you must
agree, mother dear, as you have seen him, that the Count of Monte
Cristo is a remarkable man, who will have the greatest success in the
salons of Paris. Why, this very morning, in my rooms, he made his
_entrГғВ©e_ amongst us by striking every man of us with amazement, not
even excepting ChГғВўteau-Renaud.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what do you suppose is the countГўВҖВҷs age?ГўВҖВқ inquired MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,
evidently attaching great importance to this question.

ГўВҖВңThirty-five or thirty-six, mother.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo young,ГўВҖВ”it is impossible,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, replying at the same time
to what Albert said as well as to her own private reflection.

ГўВҖВңIt is the truth, however. Three or four times he has said to me, and
certainly without the slightest premeditation, ГўВҖВҳat such a period I was
five years old, at another ten years old, at another twelve,ГўВҖВҷ and I,
induced by curiosity, which kept me alive to these details, have
compared the dates, and never found him inaccurate. The age of this
singular man, who is of no age, is then, I am certain, thirty-five.
Besides, mother, remark how vivid his eye, how raven-black his hair,
and his brow, though so pale, is free from wrinkles,ГўВҖВ”he is not only
vigorous, but also young.ГўВҖВқ

The countess bent her head, as if beneath a heavy wave of bitter
thoughts.

ГўВҖВңAnd has this man displayed a friendship for you, Albert?ГўВҖВқ she asked
with a nervous shudder.

ГўВҖВңI am inclined to think so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAndГўВҖВ”doГўВҖВ”youГўВҖВ”likeГўВҖВ”him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, he pleases me in spite of Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, who tries to convince
me that he is a being returned from the other world.ГўВҖВқ

The countess shuddered.

ГўВҖВңAlbert,ГўВҖВқ she said, in a voice which was altered by emotion, ГўВҖВңI have
always put you on your guard against new acquaintances. Now you are a
man, and are able to give me advice; yet I repeat to you, Albert, be
prudent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, my dear mother, it is necessary, in order to make your advice
turn to account, that I should know beforehand what I have to distrust.
The count never plays, he only drinks pure water tinged with a little
sherry, and is so rich that he cannot, without intending to laugh at
me, try to borrow money. What, then, have I to fear from him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, ГўВҖВңand my fears are weakness,
especially when directed against a man who has saved your life. How did
your father receive him, Albert? It is necessary that we should be more
than complaisant to the count. M. de Morcerf is sometimes occupied, his
business makes him reflective, and he might, without intending itГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing could be in better taste than my fatherГўВҖВҷs demeanor, madame,ГўВҖВқ
said Albert; ГўВҖВңnay, more, he seemed greatly flattered at two or three
compliments which the count very skilfully and agreeably paid him with
as much ease as if he had known him these thirty years. Each of these
little tickling arrows must have pleased my father,ГўВҖВқ added Albert with
a laugh. ГўВҖВңAnd thus they parted the best possible friends, and M. de
Morcerf even wished to take him to the Chamber to hear the speakers.ГўВҖВқ

The countess made no reply. She fell into so deep a reverie that her
eyes gradually closed. The young man, standing up before her, gazed
upon her with that filial affection which is so tender and endearing
with children whose mothers are still young and handsome. Then, after
seeing her eyes closed, and hearing her breathe gently, he believed she
had dropped asleep, and left the apartment on tiptoe, closing the door
after him with the utmost precaution.

ГўВҖВңThis devil of a fellow,ГўВҖВқ he muttered, shaking his head; ГўВҖВңI said at the
time he would create a sensation here, and I measure his effect by an
infallible thermometer. My mother has noticed him, and he must
therefore, perforce, be remarkable.ГўВҖВқ

He went down to the stables, not without some slight annoyance, when he
remembered that the Count of Monte Cristo had laid his hands on a
ГўВҖВңturnoutГўВҖВқ which sent his bays down to second place in the opinion of
connoisseurs.

ГўВҖВңMost decidedly,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңmen are not equal, and I must beg my father
to develop this theorem in the Chamber of Peers.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 42. Monsieur Bertuccio

Meanwhile the count had arrived at his house; it had taken him six
minutes to perform the distance, but these six minutes were sufficient
to induce twenty young men who knew the price of the equipage they had
been unable to purchase themselves, to put their horses in a gallop in
order to see the rich foreigner who could afford to give 20,000 francs
apiece for his horses.

The house Ali had chosen, and which was to serve as a town residence to
Monte Cristo, was situated on the right hand as you ascend the
Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es. A thick clump of trees and shrubs rose in the centre,
and masked a portion of the front; around this shrubbery two alleys,
like two arms, extended right and left, and formed a carriage-drive
from the iron gates to a double portico, on every step of which stood a
porcelain vase, filled with flowers. This house, isolated from the
rest, had, besides the main entrance, another in the Rue de Ponthieu.
Even before the coachman had hailed the _concierge_, the massy gates
rolled on their hingesГўВҖВ”they had seen the Count coming, and at Paris, as
everywhere else, he was served with the rapidity of lightning. The
coachman entered and traversed the half-circle without slackening his
speed, and the gates were closed ere the wheels had ceased to sound on
the gravel. The carriage stopped at the left side of the portico, two
men presented themselves at the carriage-window; the one was Ali, who,
smiling with an expression of the most sincere joy, seemed amply repaid
by a mere look from Monte Cristo. The other bowed respectfully, and
offered his arm to assist the count in descending.

ГўВҖВңThanks, M. Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count, springing lightly up the three
steps of the portico; ГўВҖВңand the notary?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is in the small salon, excellency,ГўВҖВқ returned Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңAnd the cards I ordered to be engraved as soon as you knew the number
of the house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency, it is done already. I have been myself to the best
engraver of the Palais Royal, who did the plate in my presence. The
first card struck off was taken, according to your orders, to the Baron
Danglars, Rue de la ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin, No. 7; the others are on the
mantle-piece of your excellencyГўВҖВҷs bedroom.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood; what oГўВҖВҷclock is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFour oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo gave his hat, cane, and gloves to the same French footman
who had called his carriage at the Count of MorcerfГўВҖВҷs, and then he
passed into the small salon, preceded by Bertuccio, who showed him the
way.

ГўВҖВңThese are but indifferent marbles in this antechamber,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo. ГўВҖВңI trust all this will soon be taken away.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio bowed. As the steward had said, the notary awaited him in the
small salon. He was a simple-looking lawyerГўВҖВҷs clerk, elevated to the
extraordinary dignity of a provincial scrivener.

ГўВҖВңYou are the notary empowered to sell the country house that I wish to
purchase, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYes, count,ГўВҖВқ returned the notary.

ГўВҖВңIs the deed of sale ready?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you brought it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well; and where is this house that I purchase?ГўВҖВқ asked the count
carelessly, addressing himself half to Bertuccio, half to the notary.
The steward made a gesture that signified, ГўВҖВңI do not know.ГўВҖВқ The notary
looked at the count with astonishment.

ГўВҖВңWhat!ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdoes not the count know where the house he purchases
is situated?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ returned the count.

ГўВҖВңThe count does not know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow should I know? I have arrived from Cadiz this morning. I have
never before been at Paris, and it is the first time I have ever even
set my foot in France.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is different; the house you purchase is at Auteuil.ГўВҖВқ

At these words Bertuccio turned pale.

ГўВҖВңAnd where is Auteuil?ГўВҖВқ asked the count.

ГўВҖВңClose by here, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied the notaryГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңa little beyond Passy; a
charming situation, in the heart of the Bois de Boulogne.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo near as that?ГўВҖВқ said the Count; ГўВҖВңbut that is not in the country.
What made you choose a house at the gates of Paris, M. Bertuccio?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI,ГўВҖВқ cried the steward with a strange expression. ГўВҖВңHis excellency did
not charge me to purchase this house. If his excellency will
recollectГўВҖВ”if he will thinkГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true,ГўВҖВқ observed Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI recollect now. I read the
advertisement in one of the papers, and was tempted by the false title,
ГўВҖВҳa country house.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not yet too late,ГўВҖВқ cried Bertuccio, eagerly; ГўВҖВңand if your
excellency will intrust me with the commission, I will find you a
better at Enghien, at Fontenay-aux-Roses, or at Bellevue.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo negligently; ГўВҖВңsince I have this, I will
keep it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you are quite right,ГўВҖВқ said the notary, who feared to lose his fee.
ГўВҖВңIt is a charming place, well supplied with spring-water and fine
trees; a comfortable habitation, although abandoned for a long time,
without reckoning the furniture, which, although old, is yet valuable,
now that old things are so much sought after. I suppose the count has
the tastes of the day?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo be sure,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңit is very convenient, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is moreГўВҖВ”it is magnificent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Peste!_ let us not lose such an opportunity,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo.
ГўВҖВңThe deed, if you please, Mr. Notary.ГўВҖВқ

And he signed it rapidly, after having first run his eye over that part
of the deed in which were specified the situation of the house and the
names of the proprietors.

ГўВҖВңBertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңgive fifty-five thousand francs to monsieur.ГўВҖВқ

The steward left the room with a faltering step, and returned with a
bundle of bank-notes, which the notary counted like a man who never
gives a receipt for money until after he is sure it is all there.

ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ demanded the count, ГўВҖВңare all the forms complied with?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you the keys?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey are in the hands of the concierge, who takes care of the house,
but here is the order I have given him to install the count in his new
possessions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well;ГўВҖВқ and Monte Cristo made a sign with his hand to the notary,
which said, ГўВҖВңI have no further need of you; you may go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ observed the honest notary, ГўВҖВңthe count is, I think, mistaken; it
is only fifty thousand francs, everything included.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd your fee?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs included in this sum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut have you not come from Auteuil here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, certainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, it is but fair that you should be paid for your loss of
time and trouble,ГўВҖВқ said the count; and he made a gesture of polite
dismissal.

The notary left the room backwards, and bowing down to the ground; it
was the first time he had ever met a similar client.

ГўВҖВңSee this gentleman out,ГўВҖВқ said the count to Bertuccio. And the steward
followed the notary out of the room.

Scarcely was the count alone, when he drew from his pocket a book
closed with a lock, and opened it with a key which he wore round his
neck, and which never left him. After having sought for a few minutes,
he stopped at a leaf which had several notes, and compared them with
the deed of sale, which lay on the table, and recalling his
_souvenirs_ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAuteuil, Rue de la Fontaine, No. 28;ГўВҖВҷ it is indeed the same,ГўВҖВқ said
he; ГўВҖВңand now, am I to rely upon an avowal extorted by religious or
physical terror? However, in an hour I shall know all. Bertuccio!ГўВҖВқ
cried he, striking a light hammer with a pliant handle on a small gong.
ГўВҖВңBertuccio!ГўВҖВқ

The steward appeared at the door.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңdid you never tell me that you
had travelled in France?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn some parts of FranceГўВҖВ”yes, excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know the environs of Paris, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, excellency, no,ГўВҖВқ returned the steward, with a sort of nervous
trembling, which Monte Cristo, a connoisseur in all emotions, rightly
attributed to great disquietude.

ГўВҖВңIt is unfortunate,ГўВҖВқ returned he, ГўВҖВңthat you have never visited the
environs, for I wish to see my new property this evening, and had you
gone with me, you could have given me some useful information.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Auteuil!ГўВҖВқ cried Bertuccio, whose copper complexion became lividГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI
go to Auteuil?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what is there surprising in that? When I live at Auteuil, you
must come there, as you belong to my service.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio hung down his head before the imperious look of his master,
and remained motionless, without making any answer.

ГўВҖВңWhy, what has happened to you?ГўВҖВ”are you going to make me ring a second
time for the carriage?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo, in the same tone that Louis
XIV. pronounced the famous, ГўВҖВңI have been almost obliged to wait.ГўВҖВқ
Bertuccio made but one bound to the antechamber, and cried in a hoarse
voice:

ГўВҖВңHis excellencyГўВҖВҷs horses!ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo wrote two or three notes, and, as he sealed the last, the
steward appeared.

ГўВҖВңYour excellencyГўВҖВҷs carriage is at the door,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңWell, take your hat and gloves,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңAm I to accompany you, your excellency?ГўВҖВқ cried Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңCertainly, you must give the orders, for I intend residing at the
house.ГўВҖВқ

20277m



It was unexampled for a servant of the countГўВҖВҷs to dare to dispute an
order of his, so the steward, without saying a word, followed his
master, who got into the carriage, and signed to him to follow, which
he did, taking his place respectfully on the front seat.



 Chapter 43. The House at Auteuil

Monte Cristo noticed, as they descended the staircase, that Bertuccio
signed himself in the Corsican manner; that is, had formed the sign of
the cross in the air with his thumb, and as he seated himself in the
carriage, muttered a short prayer. Anyone but a man of exhaustless
thirst for knowledge would have had pity on seeing the stewardГўВҖВҷs
extraordinary repugnance for the countГўВҖВҷs projected drive without the
walls; but the count was too curious to let Bertuccio off from this
little journey. In twenty minutes they were at Auteuil; the stewardГўВҖВҷs
emotion had continued to augment as they entered the village.
Bertuccio, crouched in the corner of the carriage, began to examine
with a feverish anxiety every house they passed.

ГўВҖВңTell them to stop at Rue de la Fontaine, No. 28,ГўВҖВқ said the count,
fixing his eyes on the steward, to whom he gave this order.

BertuccioГўВҖВҷs forehead was covered with perspiration; however, he obeyed,
and, leaning out of the window, he cried to the coachman,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңRue de la
Fontaine, No. 28.ГўВҖВқ No. 28 was situated at the extremity of the village;
during the drive night had set in, and darkness gave the surroundings
the artificial appearance of a scene on the stage. The carriage
stopped, the footman sprang off the box and opened the door.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyou do not get out, M. BertuccioГўВҖВ”you are going
to stay in the carriage, then? What are you thinking of this evening?ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio sprang out, and offered his shoulder to the count, who, this
time, leaned upon it as he descended the three steps of the carriage.

ГўВҖВңKnock,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңand announce me.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio knocked, the door opened, and the concierge appeared.

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңIt is your new master, my good fellow,ГўВҖВқ said the footman. And he held
out to the concierge the notaryГўВҖВҷs order.

ГўВҖВңThe house is sold, then?ГўВҖВқ demanded the concierge; ГўВҖВңand this gentleman
is coming to live here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, my friend,ГўВҖВқ returned the count; ГўВҖВңand I will endeavor to give you
no cause to regret your old master.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said the concierge, ГўВҖВңI shall not have much cause to
regret him, for he came here but seldom; it is five years since he was
here last, and he did well to sell the house, for it did not bring him
in anything at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was the name of your old master?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңThe Marquis of Saint-MГғВ©ran. Ah, I am sure he has not sold the house
for what he gave for it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Marquis of Saint-MГғВ©ran!ГўВҖВқ returned the count. ГўВҖВңThe name is not
unknown to me; the Marquis of Saint-MГғВ©ran!ГўВҖВқ and he appeared to
meditate.

ГўВҖВңAn old gentleman,ГўВҖВқ continued the concierge, ГўВҖВңa staunch follower of the
Bourbons; he had an only daughter, who married M. de Villefort, who had
been the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney at NГғВ®mes, and afterwards at Versailles.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo glanced at Bertuccio, who became whiter than the wall
against which he leaned to prevent himself from falling.

ГўВҖВңAnd is not this daughter dead?ГўВҖВқ demanded Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI fancy I have
heard so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, monsieur, one-and-twenty years ago; and since then we have not
seen the poor marquis three times.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThanks, thanks,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, judging from the stewardГўВҖВҷs utter
prostration that he could not stretch the cord further without danger
of breaking it. ГўВҖВңGive me a light.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I accompany you, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, it is unnecessary; Bertuccio will show me a light.ГўВҖВқ

And Monte Cristo accompanied these words by the gift of two gold
pieces, which produced a torrent of thanks and blessings from the
concierge.

ГўВҖВңAh, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said he, after having vainly searched on the
mantle-piece and the shelves, ГўВҖВңI have not got any candles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake one of the carriage-lamps, Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңand show
me the apartments.ГўВҖВқ

The steward obeyed in silence, but it was easy to see, from the manner
in which the hand that held the light trembled, how much it cost him to
obey. They went over a tolerably large ground floor; a first floor
consisted of a salon, a bathroom, and two bedrooms; near one of the
bedrooms they came to a winding staircase that led down to the garden.

ГўВҖВңAh, here is a private staircase,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңthat is convenient.
Light me, M. Bertuccio, and go first; we will see where it leads to.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңit leads to the garden.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd, pray, how do you know that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt ought to do so, at least.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, let us be sure of that.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio sighed, and went on first; the stairs did, indeed, lead to
the garden. At the outer door the steward paused.

ГўВҖВңGo on, Monsieur Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

But he who was addressed stood there, stupefied, bewildered, stunned;
his haggard eyes glanced around, as if in search of the traces of some
terrible event, and with his clenched hands he seemed striving to shut
out horrible recollections.

ГўВҖВңWell!ГўВҖВқ insisted the Count.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ cried Bertuccio, setting down the lantern at the angle of the
interior wall. ГўВҖВңNo, monsieur, it is impossible; I can go no farther.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat does this mean?ГўВҖВқ demanded the irresistible voice of Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWhy, you must see, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ cried the steward, ГўВҖВңthat this is
not natural; that, having a house to purchase, you purchase it exactly
at Auteuil, and that, purchasing it at Auteuil, this house should be
No. 28, Rue de la Fontaine. Oh, why did I not tell you all? I am sure
you would not have forced me to come. I hoped your house would have
been some other one than this; as if there was not another house at
Auteuil than that of the assassination!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, what!ГўВҖВқ cried Monte Cristo, stopping suddenly, ГўВҖВңwhat words do you
utter? Devil of a man, Corsican that you areГўВҖВ”always mysteries or
superstitions. Come, take the lantern, and let us visit the garden; you
are not afraid of ghosts with me, I hope?ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio raised the lantern, and obeyed. The door, as it opened,
disclosed a gloomy sky, in which the moon strove vainly to struggle
through a sea of clouds that covered her with billows of vapor which
she illumined for an instant, only to sink into obscurity. The steward
wished to turn to the left.

ГўВҖВңNo, no, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңWhat is the use of following
the alleys? Here is a beautiful lawn; let us go on straight forwards.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio wiped the perspiration from his brow, but obeyed; however, he
continued to take the left hand. Monte Cristo, on the contrary, took
the right hand; arrived near a clump of trees, he stopped. The steward
could not restrain himself.

ГўВҖВңMove, monsieurГўВҖВ”move away, I entreat you; you are exactly in the spot!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat spot?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere he fell.ГўВҖВқ

20281m



ГўВҖВңMy dear Monsieur Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, laughing, ГўВҖВңcontrol
yourself; we are not at SartГғВЁne or at Corte. This is not a Corsican
_maquis_ but an English garden; badly kept, I own, but still you must
not calumniate it for that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur, I implore you do not stay there!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think you are going mad, Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count coldly. ГўВҖВңIf that
is the case, I warn you, I shall have you put in a lunatic asylum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas! excellency,ГўВҖВқ returned Bertuccio, joining his hands, and shaking
his head in a manner that would have excited the countГўВҖВҷs laughter, had
not thoughts of a superior interest occupied him, and rendered him
attentive to the least revelation of this timorous conscience. ГўВҖВңAlas!
excellency, the evil has arrived!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI am very glad to tell you, that while
you gesticulate, you wring your hands and roll your eyes like a man
possessed by a devil who will not leave him; and I have always
observed, that the devil most obstinate to be expelled is a secret. I
knew you were a Corsican. I knew you were gloomy, and always brooding
over some old history of the vendetta; and I overlooked that in Italy,
because in Italy those things are thought nothing of. But in France
they are considered in very bad taste; there are gendarmes who occupy
themselves with such affairs, judges who condemn, and scaffolds which
avenge.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio clasped his hands, and as, in all these evolutions, he did
not let fall the lantern, the light showed his pale and altered
countenance. Monte Cristo examined him with the same look that, at
Rome, he had bent upon the execution of Andrea, and then, in a tone
that made a shudder pass through the veins of the poor stewardГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңThe AbbГғВ© Busoni, then told me an untruth,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwhen, after his
journey in France, in 1829, he sent you to me, with a letter of
recommendation, in which he enumerated all your valuable qualities.
Well, I shall write to the abbГғВ©; I shall hold him responsible for his
_protГғВ©gГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs_ misconduct, and I shall soon know all about this
assassination. Only I warn you, that when I reside in a country, I
conform to all its code, and I have no wish to put myself within the
compass of the French laws for your sake.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, do not do that, excellency; I have always served you faithfully,ГўВҖВқ
cried Bertuccio, in despair. ГўВҖВңI have always been an honest man, and, as
far as lay in my power, I have done good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not deny it,ГўВҖВқ returned the count; ГўВҖВңbut why are you thus agitated.
It is a bad sign; a quiet conscience does not occasion such paleness in
the cheeks, and such fever in the hands of a man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ replied Bertuccio hesitatingly, ГўВҖВңdid not the
AbbГғВ© Busoni, who heard my confession in the prison at NГғВ®mes, tell you
that I had a heavy burden upon my conscience?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but as he said you would make an excellent steward, I concluded
you had stolenГўВҖВ”that was all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, your excellency!ГўВҖВқ returned Bertuccio in deep contempt.

ГўВҖВңOr, as you are a Corsican, that you had been unable to resist the
desire of making a ГўВҖВҳstiff,ГўВҖВҷ as you call it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, my good master,ГўВҖВқ cried Bertuccio, casting himself at the countГўВҖВҷs
feet, ГўВҖВңit was simply vengeanceГўВҖВ”nothing else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI understand that, but I do not understand what it is that galvanizes
you in this manner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, monsieur, it is very natural,ГўВҖВқ returned Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңsince it was
in this house that my vengeance was accomplished.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat! my house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, your excellency, it was not yours, then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhose, then? The Marquis de Saint-MГғВ©ran, I think, the concierge said.
What had you to revenge on the Marquis de Saint-MГғВ©ran?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it was not on him, monsieur; it was on another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is strange,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo, seeming to yield to his
reflections, ГўВҖВңthat you should find yourself without any preparation in
a house where the event happened that causes you so much remorse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ said the steward, ГўВҖВңit is fatality, I am sure. First, you
purchase a house at AuteuilГўВҖВ”this house is the one where I have
committed an assassination; you descend to the garden by the same
staircase by which he descended; you stop at the spot where he received
the blow; and two paces farther is the grave in which he had just
buried his child. This is not chance, for chance, in this case, is too
much like Providence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, amiable Corsican, let us suppose it is Providence. I always
suppose anything people please, and, besides, you must concede
something to diseased minds. Come, collect yourself, and tell me all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have related it but once, and that was to the AbbГғВ© Busoni. Such
things,ГўВҖВқ continued Bertuccio, shaking his head, ГўВҖВңare only related under
the seal of confession.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI refer you to your confessor. Turn Chartreux
or Trappist, and relate your secrets, but, as for me, I do not like
anyone who is alarmed by such phantasms, and I do not choose that my
servants should be afraid to walk in the garden of an evening. I
confess I am not very desirous of a visit from the commissary of
police, for, in Italy, justice is only paid when silentГўВҖВ”in France she
is paid only when she speaks. _Peste!_ I thought you somewhat Corsican,
a great deal smuggler, and an excellent steward; but I see you have
other strings to your bow. You are no longer in my service, Monsieur
Bertuccio.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, your excellency, your excellency!ГўВҖВқ cried the steward, struck with
terror at this threat, ГўВҖВңif that is the only reason I cannot remain in
your service, I will tell all, for if I quit you, it will only be to go
to the scaffold.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is different,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut if you intend to tell
an untruth, reflect it were better not to speak at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, monsieur, I swear to you, by my hopes of salvation, I will tell
you all, for the AbbГғВ© Busoni himself only knew a part of my secret;
but, I pray you, go away from that plane-tree. The moon is just
bursting through the clouds, and there, standing where you do, and
wrapped in that cloak that conceals your figure, you remind me of M. de
Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat!ГўВҖВқ cried Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңit was M. de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency knows him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe former royal attorney at NГғВ®mes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho married the Marquis of Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs daughter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho enjoyed the reputation of being the most severe, the most upright,
the most rigid magistrate on the bench?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңthis man with this spotless
reputationГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas a villain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңimpossible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is as I tell you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, really,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңHave you proof of this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI had it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you have lost it; how stupid!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but by careful search it might be recovered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally,ГўВҖВқ returned the count, ГўВҖВңrelate it to me, for it begins to
interest me.ГўВҖВқ

And the count, humming an air from _Lucia_, went to sit down on a
bench, while Bertuccio followed him, collecting his thoughts. Bertuccio
remained standing before him.

20285m




 Chapter 44. The Vendetta

At what point shall I begin my story, your excellency?ГўВҖВқ asked
Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңWhere you please,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңsince I know nothing at all
of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thought the AbbГғВ© Busoni had told your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSome particulars, doubtless, but that is seven or eight years ago, and
I have forgotten them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I can speak without fear of tiring your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on, M. Bertuccio; you will supply the want of the evening papers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe story begins in 1815.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВң1815 is not yesterday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, monsieur, and yet I recollect all things as clearly as if they had
happened but then. I had a brother, an elder brother, who was in the
service of the emperor; he had become lieutenant in a regiment composed
entirely of Corsicans. This brother was my only friend; we became
orphansГўВҖВ”I at five, he at eighteen. He brought me up as if I had been
his son, and in 1814 he married. When the emperor returned from the
Island of Elba, my brother instantly joined the army, was slightly
wounded at Waterloo, and retired with the army beyond the Loire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut that is the history of the Hundred Days, M. Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the
count; ГўВҖВңunless I am mistaken, it has been already written.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, excellency, but these details are necessary, and you
promised to be patient.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on; I will keep my word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne day we received a letter. I should tell you that we lived in the
little village of Rogliano, at the extremity of Cap Corse. This letter
was from my brother. He told us that the army was disbanded, and that
he should return by ChГғВўteauroux, Clermont-Ferrand, Le Puy, and NГғВ®mes;
and, if I had any money, he prayed me to leave it for him at NГғВ®mes,
with an innkeeper with whom I had dealings.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the smuggling line?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңEh, your excellency? Everyone must live.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; go on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI loved my brother tenderly, as I told your excellency, and I resolved
not to send the money, but to take it to him myself. I possessed a
thousand francs. I left five hundred with Assunta, my sister-in-law,
and with the other five hundred I set off for NГғВ®mes. It was easy to do
so, and as I had my boat and a lading to take in at sea, everything
favored my project. But, after we had taken in our cargo, the wind
became contrary, so that we were four or five days without being able
to enter the RhГғВҙne. At last, however, we succeeded, and worked up to
Arles. I left the boat between Bellegarde and Beaucaire, and took the
road to NГғВ®mes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are getting to the story now?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency; excuse me, but, as you will see, I only tell you
what is absolutely necessary. Just at this time the famous massacres
took place in the south of France. Three brigands, called Trestaillon,
Truphemy, and Graffan, publicly assassinated everybody whom they
suspected of Bonapartism. You have doubtless heard of these massacres,
your excellency?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVaguely; I was far from France at that period. Go on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs I entered NГғВ®mes, I literally waded in blood; at every step you
encountered dead bodies and bands of murderers, who killed, plundered,
and burned. At the sight of this slaughter and devastation I became
terrified, not for myselfГўВҖВ”for I, a simple Corsican fisherman, had
nothing to fear; on the contrary, that time was most favorable for us
smugglersГўВҖВ”but for my brother, a soldier of the empire, returning from
the army of the Loire, with his uniform and his epaulets, there was
everything to apprehend. I hastened to the innkeeper. My misgivings had
been but too true. My brother had arrived the previous evening at
NГғВ®mes, and, at the very door of the house where he was about to demand
hospitality, he had been assassinated. I did all in my power to
discover the murderers, but no one durst tell me their names, so much
were they dreaded. I then thought of that French justice of which I had
heard so much, and which feared nothing, and I went to the kingГўВҖВҷs
attorney.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd this kingГўВҖВҷs attorney was named Villefort?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo
carelessly.

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency; he came from Marseilles, where he had been
deputy procureur. His zeal had procured him advancement, and he was
said to be one of the first who had informed the government of the
departure from the Island of Elba.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңyou went to him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMonsieur,ГўВҖВҷ I said, ГўВҖВҳmy brother was assassinated yesterday in the
streets of NГғВ®mes, I know not by whom, but it is your duty to find out.
You are the representative of justice here, and it is for justice to
avenge those she has been unable to protect.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWho was your brother?ГўВҖВҷ asked he.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳA lieutenant in the Corsican battalion.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳA soldier of the usurper, then?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳA soldier of the French army.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell,ГўВҖВҷ replied he, ГўВҖВҳhe has smitten with the sword, and he has
perished by the sword.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYou are mistaken, monsieur,ГўВҖВҷ I replied; ГўВҖВҳhe has perished by the
poniard.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat do you want me to do?ГўВҖВҷ asked the magistrate.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI have already told youГўВҖВ”avenge him.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOn whom?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOn his murderers.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHow should I know who they are?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOrder them to be sought for.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhy, your brother has been involved in a quarrel, and killed in a
duel. All these old soldiers commit excesses which were tolerated in
the time of the emperor, but which are not suffered now, for the people
here do not like soldiers of such disorderly conduct.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMonsieur,ГўВҖВҷ I replied, ГўВҖВҳit is not for myself that I entreat your
interferenceГўВҖВ”I should grieve for him or avenge him, but my poor brother
had a wife, and were anything to happen to me, the poor creature would
perish from want, for my brotherГўВҖВҷs pay alone kept her. Pray, try and
obtain a small government pension for her.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳEvery revolution has its catastrophes,ГўВҖВҷ returned M. de Villefort;
ГўВҖВҳyour brother has been the victim of this. It is a misfortune, and
government owes nothing to his family. If we are to judge by all the
vengeance that the followers of the usurper exercised on the partisans
of the king, when, in their turn, they were in power, your brother
would be today, in all probability, condemned to death. What has
happened is quite natural, and in conformity with the law of
reprisals.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat,ГўВҖВҷ cried I, ГўВҖВҳdo you, a magistrate, speak thus to me?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAll these Corsicans are mad, on my honor,ГўВҖВҷ replied M. de Villefort;
ГўВҖВҳthey fancy that their countryman is still emperor. You have mistaken
the time, you should have told me this two months ago, it is too late
now. Go now, at once, or I shall have you put out.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңI looked at him an instant to see if there was anything to hope from
further entreaty. But he was a man of stone. I approached him, and said
in a low voice, ГўВҖВҳWell, since you know the Corsicans so well, you know
that they always keep their word. You think that it was a good deed to
kill my brother, who was a Bonapartist, because you are a royalist.
Well, I, who am a Bonapartist also, declare one thing to you, which is,
that I will kill you. From this moment I declare the vendetta against
you, so protect yourself as well as you can, for the next time we meet
your last hour has come.ГўВҖВҷ And before he had recovered from his
surprise, I opened the door and left the room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, well,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңsuch an innocent looking person as
you are to do those things, M. Bertuccio, and to a kingГўВҖВҷs attorney at
that! But did he know what was meant by the terrible word ГўВҖВҳvendettaГўВҖВҷ?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe knew so well, that from that moment he shut himself in his house,
and never went out unattended, seeking me high and low. Fortunately, I
was so well concealed that he could not find me. Then he became
alarmed, and dared not stay any longer at NГғВ®mes, so he solicited a
change of residence, and, as he was in reality very influential, he was
nominated to Versailles. But, as you know, a Corsican who has sworn to
avenge himself cares not for distance, so his carriage, fast as it
went, was never above half a dayГўВҖВҷs journey before me, who followed him
on foot. The most important thing was, not to kill him onlyГўВҖВ”for I had
an opportunity of doing so a hundred timesГўВҖВ”but to kill him without
being discoveredГўВҖВ”at least, without being arrested. I no longer belonged
to myself, for I had my sister-in-law to protect and provide for.

ГўВҖВңFor three months I watched M. de Villefort, for three months he took
not a step out-of-doors without my following him. At length I
discovered that he went mysteriously to Auteuil. I followed him
thither, and I saw him enter the house where we now are, only, instead
of entering by the great door that looks into the street, he came on
horseback, or in his carriage, left the one or the other at the little
inn, and entered by the gate you see there.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo made a sign with his head to show that he could discern in
the darkness the door to which Bertuccio alluded.

ГўВҖВңAs I had nothing more to do at Versailles, I went to Auteuil, and
gained all the information I could. If I wished to surprise him, it was
evident this was the spot to lie in wait for him. The house belonged,
as the concierge informed your excellency, to M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran,
VillefortГўВҖВҷs father-in-law. M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran lived at Marseilles, so
that this country house was useless to him, and it was reported to be
let to a young widow, known only by the name of ГўВҖВҳthe Baroness.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңOne evening, as I was looking over the wall, I saw a young and
handsome woman who was walking alone in that garden, which was not
overlooked by any windows, and I guessed that she was awaiting M. de
Villefort. When she was sufficiently near for me to distinguish her
features, I saw she was from eighteen to nineteen, tall and very fair.
As she had a loose muslin dress on and as nothing concealed her figure,
I saw she would ere long become a mother. A few moments after, the
little door was opened and a man entered. The young woman hastened to
meet him. They threw themselves into each otherГўВҖВҷs arms, embraced
tenderly, and returned together to the house. The man was M. de
Villefort; I fully believed that when he went out in the night he would
be forced to traverse the whole of the garden alone.ГўВҖВқ

20291m



ГўВҖВңAnd,ГўВҖВқ asked the count, ГўВҖВңdid you ever know the name of this woman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, excellency,ГўВҖВқ returned Bertuccio; ГўВҖВңyou will see that I had no time
to learn it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat evening,ГўВҖВқ continued Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңI could have killed the
procureur, but as I was not sufficiently acquainted with the
neighborhood, I was fearful of not killing him on the spot, and that if
his cries were overheard I might be taken; so I put it off until the
next occasion, and in order that nothing should escape me, I took a
chamber looking into the street bordered by the wall of the garden.
Three days after, about seven oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening, I saw a servant
on horseback leave the house at full gallop, and take the road to
SГғВЁvres. I concluded that he was going to Versailles, and I was not
deceived. Three hours later, the man returned covered with dust, his
errand was performed, and two minutes after, another man on foot,
muffled in a mantle, opened the little door of the garden, which he
closed after him. I descended rapidly; although I had not seen
VillefortГўВҖВҷs face, I recognized him by the beating of my heart. I
crossed the street, and stopped at a post placed at the angle of the
wall, and by means of which I had once before looked into the garden.

ГўВҖВңThis time I did not content myself with looking, but I took my knife
out of my pocket, felt that the point was sharp, and sprang over the
wall. My first care was to run to the door; he had left the key in it,
taking the simple precaution of turning it twice in the lock. Nothing,
then, preventing my escape by this means, I examined the grounds. The
garden was long and narrow; a stretch of smooth turf extended down the
middle, and at the corners were clumps of trees with thick and massy
foliage, that made a background for the shrubs and flowers. In order to
go from the door to the house, or from the house to the door, M. de
Villefort would be obliged to pass by one of these clumps of trees.

20293m



ГўВҖВңIt was the end of September; the wind blew violently. The faint
glimpses of the pale moon, hidden momentarily by masses of dark clouds
that were sweeping across the sky, whitened the gravel walks that led
to the house, but were unable to pierce the obscurity of the thick
shrubberies, in which a man could conceal himself without any fear of
discovery. I hid myself in the one nearest to the path Villefort must
take, and scarcely was I there when, amidst the gusts of wind, I
fancied I heard groans; but you know, or rather you do not know, your
excellency, that he who is about to commit an assassination fancies
that he hears low cries perpetually ringing in his ears. Two hours
passed thus, during which I imagined I heard moans repeatedly. Midnight
struck. As the last stroke died away, I saw a faint light shine through
the windows of the private staircase by which we have just descended.
The door opened, and the man in the mantle reappeared.

ГўВҖВңThe terrible moment had come, but I had so long been prepared for it
that my heart did not fail in the least. I drew my knife from my pocket
again, opened it, and made ready to strike. The man in the mantle
advanced towards me, but as he drew near I saw that he had a weapon in
his hand. I was afraid, not of a struggle, but of a failure. When he
was only a few paces from me, I saw that what I had taken for a weapon
was only a spade. I was still unable to divine for what reason M. de
Villefort had this spade in his hands, when he stopped close to the
thicket where I was, glanced round, and began to dig a hole in the
earth. I then perceived that he was hiding something under his mantle,
which he laid on the grass in order to dig more freely. Then, I
confess, curiosity mingled with hatred; I wished to see what Villefort
was going to do there, and I remained motionless, holding my breath.
Then an idea crossed my mind, which was confirmed when I saw the
procureur lift from under his mantle a box, two feet long, and six or
eight inches deep. I let him place the box in the hole he had made,
then, while he stamped with his feet to remove all traces of his
occupation, I rushed on him and plunged my knife into his breast,
exclaiming:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI am Giovanni Bertuccio; thy death for my brotherГўВҖВҷs; thy treasure for
his widow; thou seest that my vengeance is more complete than I had
hoped.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңI know not if he heard these words; I think he did not, for he fell
without a cry. I felt his blood gush over my face, but I was
intoxicated, I was delirious, and the blood refreshed, instead of
burning me. In a second I had disinterred the box; then, that it might
not be known I had done so, I filled up the hole, threw the spade over
the wall, and rushed through the door, which I double-locked, carrying
off the key.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңit seems to me this was nothing but murder and
robbery.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ returned Bertuccio; ГўВҖВңit was a vendetta followed
by restitution.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd was the sum a large one?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was not money.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, I recollect,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңdid you not say something of an
infant?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, excellency; I hastened to the river, sat down on the bank, and
with my knife forced open the lock of the box. In a fine linen cloth
was wrapped a new-born child. Its purple visage, and its violet-colored
hands showed that it had perished from suffocation, but as it was not
yet cold, I hesitated to throw it into the water that ran at my feet.
After a moment I fancied that I felt a slight pulsation of the heart,
and as I had been assistant at the hospital at Bastia, I did what a
doctor would have doneГўВҖВ”I inflated the lungs by blowing air into them,
and at the expiration of a quarter of an hour, it began to breathe, and
cried feebly. In my turn I uttered a cry, but a cry of joy.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳGod has not cursed me then,ГўВҖВҷ I cried, ГўВҖВҳsince he permits me to save
the life of a human creature, in exchange for the life I have taken
away.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

20295m



ГўВҖВңAnd what did you do with the child?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңIt was an
embarrassing load for a man seeking to escape.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI had not for a moment the idea of keeping it, but I knew that at
Paris there was an asylum where they receive such creatures. As I
passed the city gates I declared that I had found the child on the
road, and I inquired where the asylum was; the box confirmed my
statement, the linen proved that the infant belonged to wealthy
parents, the blood with which I was covered might have proceeded from
the child as well as from anyone else. No objection was raised, but
they pointed out the asylum, which was situated at the upper end of the
Rue dГўВҖВҷEnfer, and after having taken the precaution of cutting the linen
in two pieces, so that one of the two letters which marked it was on
the piece wrapped around the child, while the other remained in my
possession, I rang the bell, and fled with all speed. A fortnight after
I was at Rogliano, and I said to Assunta:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳConsole thyself, sister; Israel is dead, but he is avenged.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңShe demanded what I meant, and when I had told her all,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳGiovanni,ГўВҖВҷ
said she, ГўВҖВҳyou should have brought this child with you; we would have
replaced the parents it has lost, have called it Benedetto, and then,
in consequence of this good action, God would have blessed us.ГўВҖВҷ In
reply I gave her the half of the linen I had kept in order to reclaim
him if we became rich.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat letters were marked on the linen?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңAn H and an N, surmounted by a baronГўВҖВҷs coronet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy heaven, M. Bertuccio, you make use of heraldic terms; where did you
study heraldry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn your service, excellency, where everything is learned.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on, I am curious to know two things.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat are they, your excellency?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat became of this little boy? for I think you told me it was a boy,
M. Bertuccio.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo excellency, I do not recollect telling you that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thought you did; I must have been mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, you were not, for it was in reality a little boy. But your
excellency wished to know two things; what was the second?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe second was the crime of which you were accused when you asked for
a confessor, and the AbbГғВ© Busoni came to visit you at your request in
the prison at NГғВ®mes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe story will be very long, excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat matter? you know I take but little sleep, and I do not suppose
you are very much inclined for it either.ГўВҖВқ Bertuccio bowed, and resumed
his story.

ГўВҖВңPartly to drown the recollections of the past that haunted me, partly
to supply the wants of the poor widow, I eagerly returned to my trade
of smuggler, which had become more easy since that relaxation of the
laws which always follows a revolution. The southern districts were
ill-watched in particular, in consequence of the disturbances that were
perpetually breaking out in Avignon, NГғВ®mes, or UzГғВЁs. We profited by
this respite on the part of the government to make friends everywhere.
Since my brotherГўВҖВҷs assassination in the streets of NГғВ®mes, I had never
entered the town; the result was that the innkeeper with whom we were
connected, seeing that we would no longer come to him, was forced to
come to us, and had established a branch to his inn, on the road from
Bellegarde to Beaucaire, at the sign of the Pont du Gard. We had thus,
at Aigues-Mortes, Martigues, or Bouc, a dozen places where we left our
goods, and where, in case of necessity, we concealed ourselves from the
gendarmes and custom-house officers. Smuggling is a profitable trade,
when a certain degree of vigor and intelligence is employed; as for
myself, brought up in the mountains, I had a double motive for fearing
the gendarmes and custom-house officers, as my appearance before the
judges would cause an inquiry, and an inquiry always looks back into
the past. And in my past life they might find something far more grave
than the selling of smuggled cigars, or barrels of brandy without a
permit. So, preferring death to capture, I accomplished the most
astonishing deeds, and which, more than once, showed me that the too
great care we take of our bodies is the only obstacle to the success of
those projects which require rapid decision, and vigorous and
determined execution. In reality, when you have once devoted your life
to your enterprises, you are no longer the equal of other men, or,
rather, other men are no longer your equals, and whosoever has taken
this resolution, feels his strength and resources doubled.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPhilosophy, M. Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ interrupted the count; ГўВҖВңyou have done a
little of everything in your life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, excellency!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no; but philosophy at half-past ten at night is somewhat late; yet
I have no other observation to make, for what you say is correct, which
is more than can be said for all philosophy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy journeys became more and more extensive and more productive.
Assunta took care of all, and our little fortune increased. One day as
I was setting off on an expedition, ГўВҖВҳGo,ГўВҖВҷ said she; ГўВҖВҳat your return I
will give you a surprise.ГўВҖВҷ I questioned her, but in vain; she would
tell me nothing, and I departed. Our expedition lasted nearly six
weeks; we had been to Lucca to take in oil, to Leghorn for English
cottons, and we ran our cargo without opposition, and returned home
full of joy. When I entered the house, the first thing I beheld in the
middle of AssuntaГўВҖВҷs chamber was a cradle that might be called sumptuous
compared with the rest of the furniture, and in it a baby seven or
eight months old. I uttered a cry of joy; the only moments of sadness I
had known since the assassination of the procureur were caused by the
recollection that I had abandoned this child. For the assassination
itself I had never felt any remorse. Poor Assunta had guessed all. She
had profited by my absence, and furnished with the half of the linen,
and having written down the day and hour at which I had deposited the
child at the asylum, had set off for Paris, and had reclaimed it. No
objection was raised, and the infant was given up to her. Ah, I
confess, your excellency, when I saw this poor creature sleeping
peacefully in its cradle, I felt my eyes filled with tears. ГўВҖВҳAh,
Assunta,ГўВҖВҷ cried I, ГўВҖВҳyou are an excellent woman, and Heaven will bless
you.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңis less correct than your philosophy,ГўВҖВ”it is
only faith.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, your excellency is right,ГўВҖВқ replied Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңand God made this
infant the instrument of our punishment. Never did a perverse nature
declare itself more prematurely, and yet it was not owing to any fault
in his bringing up. He was a most lovely child, with large blue eyes,
of that deep color that harmonizes so well with the blond complexion;
only his hair, which was too light, gave his face a most singular
expression, and added to the vivacity of his look, and the malice of
his smile.

ГўВҖВңUnfortunately, there is a proverb which says that ГўВҖВҳred is either
altogether good or altogether bad.ГўВҖВҷ The proverb was but too correct as
regarded Benedetto, and even in his infancy he manifested the worst
disposition. It is true that the indulgence of his foster-mother
encouraged him. This child, for whom my poor sister would go to the
town, five or six leagues off, to purchase the earliest fruits and the
most tempting sweetmeats, preferred to Palma grapes or Genoese
preserves, the chestnuts stolen from a neighborГўВҖВҷs orchard, or the dried
apples in his loft, when he could eat as well of the nuts and apples
that grew in my garden.

ГўВҖВңOne day, when Benedetto was about five or six, our neighbor Wasilio,
who, according to the custom of the country, never locked up his purse
or his valuablesГўВҖВ”for, as your excellency knows, there are no thieves in
CorsicaГўВҖВ”complained that he had lost a louis out of his purse; we
thought he must have made a mistake in counting his money, but he
persisted in the accuracy of his statement. One day, Benedetto, who had
been gone from the house since morning, to our great anxiety, did not
return until late in the evening, dragging a monkey after him, which he
said he had found chained to the foot of a tree. For more than a month
past, the mischievous child, who knew not what to wish for, had taken
it into his head to have a monkey. A boatman, who had passed by
Rogliano, and who had several of these animals, whose tricks had
greatly diverted him, had, doubtless, suggested this idea to him.
ГўВҖВҳMonkeys are not found in our woods chained to trees,ГўВҖВҷ said I; ГўВҖВҳconfess
how you obtained this animal.ГўВҖВҷ Benedetto maintained the truth of what
he had said, and accompanied it with details that did more honor to his
imagination than to his veracity. I became angry; he began to laugh, I
threatened to strike him, and he made two steps backwards. ГўВҖВҳYou cannot
beat me,ГўВҖВҷ said he; ГўВҖВҳyou have no right, for you are not my father.ГўВҖВҷ

20299m



ГўВҖВңWe never knew who had revealed this fatal secret, which we had so
carefully concealed from him; however, it was this answer, in which the
childГўВҖВҷs whole character revealed itself, that almost terrified me, and
my arm fell without touching him.

ГўВҖВңThe boy triumphed, and this victory rendered him so audacious, that
all the money of Assunta, whose affection for him seemed to increase as
he became more unworthy of it, was spent in caprices she knew not how
to contend against, and follies she had not the courage to prevent.
When I was at Rogliano everything went on properly, but no sooner was
my back turned than Benedetto became master, and everything went ill.
When he was only eleven, he chose his companions from among the young
men of eighteen or twenty, the worst characters in Bastia, or, indeed,
in Corsica, and they had already, for some mischievous pranks, been
several times threatened with a prosecution. I became alarmed, as any
prosecution might be attended with serious consequences. I was
compelled, at this period, to leave Corsica on an important expedition;
I reflected for a long time, and with the hope of averting some
impending misfortune, I resolved that Benedetto should accompany me.

ГўВҖВңI hoped that the active and laborious life of a smuggler, with the
severe discipline on board, would have a salutary effect on his
character, which was now well-nigh, if not quite, corrupt. I spoke to
Benedetto alone, and proposed to him to accompany me, endeavoring to
tempt him by all the promises most likely to dazzle the imagination of
a child of twelve. He heard me patiently, and when I had finished,
burst out laughing.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAre you mad, uncle?ГўВҖВҷ (he called me by this name when he was in good
humor); ГўВҖВҳdo you think I am going to change the life I lead for your
mode of existenceГўВҖВ”my agreeable indolence for the hard and precarious
toil you impose on yourself, exposed to the bitter frost at night, and
the scorching heat by day, compelled to conceal yourself, and when you
are perceived, receive a volley of bullets, all to earn a paltry sum?
Why, I have as much money as I want; mother Assunta always furnishes me
when I ask for it! You see that I should be a fool to accept your
offer.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe arguments, and his audacity, perfectly stupefied me. Benedetto
rejoined his associates, and I saw him from a distance point me out to
them as a fool.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSweet child,ГўВҖВқ murmured Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңOh, had he been my own son,ГўВҖВқ replied Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңor even my nephew, I
would have brought him back to the right road, for the knowledge that
you are doing your duty gives you strength, but the idea that I was
striking a child whose father I had killed, made it impossible for me
to punish him. I gave my sister, who constantly defended the
unfortunate boy, good advice, and as she confessed that she had several
times missed money to a considerable amount, I showed her a safe place
in which to conceal our little treasure for the future. My mind was
already made up. Benedetto could read, write, and cipher perfectly, for
when the fit seized him, he learned more in a day than others in a
week. My intention was to enter him as a clerk in some ship, and
without letting him know anything of my plan, to convey him some
morning on board; by this means his future treatment would depend upon
his own conduct. I set off for France, after having fixed upon the
plan. Our cargo was to be landed in the Gulf of Lyons, and this was a
difficult thing to do because it was then the year 1829. The most
perfect tranquillity was restored, and the vigilance of the
custom-house officers was redoubled, and their strictness was increased
at this time, in consequence of the fair at Beaucaire.

20301m



ГўВҖВңOur expedition made a favorable beginning. We anchored our
vesselГўВҖВ”which had a double hold, where our goods were concealedГўВҖВ”amidst a
number of other vessels that bordered the banks of the RhГғВҙne from
Beaucaire to Arles. On our arrival we began to discharge our cargo in
the night, and to convey it into the town, by the help of the innkeeper
with whom we were connected.

ГўВҖВңWhether success rendered us imprudent, or whether we were betrayed, I
know not; but one evening, about five oГўВҖВҷclock, our little cabin-boy
came breathlessly, to inform us that he had seen a detachment of
custom-house officers advancing in our direction. It was not their
proximity that alarmed us, for detachments were constantly patrolling
along the banks of the RhГғВҙne, but the care, according to the boyГўВҖВҷs
account, that they took to avoid being seen. In an instant we were on
the alert, but it was too late; our vessel was surrounded, and amongst
the custom-house officers I observed several gendarmes, and, as
terrified at the sight of their uniforms as I was brave at the sight of
any other, I sprang into the hold, opened a port, and dropped into the
river, dived, and only rose at intervals to breathe, until I reached a
ditch that had recently been made from the RhГғВҙne to the canal that runs
from Beaucaire to Aigues-Mortes. I was now safe, for I could swim along
the ditch without being seen, and I reached the canal in safety. I had
designedly taken this direction. I have already told your excellency of
an innkeeper from NГғВ®mes who had set up a little tavern on the road from
Bellegarde to Beaucaire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңI perfectly recollect him; I think he was
your colleague.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely,ГўВҖВқ answered Bertuccio; ГўВҖВңbut he had, seven or eight years
before this period, sold his establishment to a tailor at Marseilles,
who, having almost ruined himself in his old trade, wished to make his
fortune in another. Of course, we made the same arrangements with the
new landlord that we had with the old; and it was of this man that I
intended to ask shelter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was his name?ГўВҖВқ inquired the count, who seemed to become somewhat
interested in BertuccioГўВҖВҷs story.

ГўВҖВңGaspard Caderousse; he had married a woman from the village of
Carconte, and whom we did not know by any other name than that of her
village. She was suffering from malarial fever, and seemed dying by
inches. As for her husband, he was a strapping fellow of forty, or
five-and-forty, who had more than once, in time of danger, given ample
proof of his presence of mind and courage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you say,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңthat this took place towards
the yearГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң1829, your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what month?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe beginning or the end?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe evening of the 3rd.ГўВҖВқ

20303m



ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңthe evening of the 3rd of June, 1829. Go on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was from Caderousse that I intended demanding shelter, and, as we
never entered by the door that opened onto the road, I resolved not to
break through the rule, so climbing over the garden-hedge, I crept
amongst the olive and wild fig trees, and fearing that Caderousse might
have some guest, I entered a kind of shed in which I had often passed
the night, and which was only separated from the inn by a partition, in
which holes had been made in order to enable us to watch an opportunity
of announcing our presence.

ГўВҖВңMy intention was, if Caderousse was alone, to acquaint him with my
presence, finish the meal the custom-house officers had interrupted,
and profit by the threatened storm to return to the RhГғВҙne, and
ascertain the state of our vessel and its crew. I stepped into the
shed, and it was fortunate I did so, for at that moment Caderousse
entered with a stranger.

ГўВҖВңI waited patiently, not to overhear what they said, but because I
could do nothing else; besides, the same thing had occurred often
before. The man who was with Caderousse was evidently a stranger to the
South of France; he was one of those merchants who come to sell
jewellery at the Beaucaire fair, and who during the month the fair
lasts, and during which there is so great an influx of merchants and
customers from all parts of Europe, often have dealings to the amount
of 100,000 to 150,000 francs. Caderousse entered hastily. Then, seeing
that the room was, as usual, empty, and only guarded by the dog, he
called to his wife, ГўВҖВҳHello, Carconte,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳthe worthy priest has
not deceived us; the diamond is real.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңAn exclamation of joy was heard, and the staircase creaked beneath a
feeble step. ГўВҖВҳWhat do you say?ГўВҖВҷ asked his wife, pale as death.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI say that the diamond is real, and that this gentleman, one of the
first jewellers of Paris, will give us 50,000 francs for it. Only, in
order to satisfy himself that it really belongs to us, he wishes you to
relate to him, as I have done already, the miraculous manner in which
the diamond came into our possession. In the meantime please to sit
down, monsieur, and I will fetch you some refreshment.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe jeweller examined attentively the interior of the inn and the
apparent poverty of the persons who were about to sell him a diamond
that seemed to have come from the casket of a prince.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳRelate your story, madame,ГўВҖВҷ said he, wishing, no doubt, to profit by
the absence of the husband, so that the latter could not influence the
wifeГўВҖВҷs story, to see if the two recitals tallied.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOh,ГўВҖВҷ returned she, ГўВҖВҳit was a gift of heaven. My husband was a great
friend, in 1814 or 1815, of a sailor named Edmond DantГғВЁs. This poor
fellow, whom Caderousse had forgotten, had not forgotten him, and at
his death he bequeathed this diamond to him.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBut how did he obtain it?ГўВҖВҷ asked the jeweller; ГўВҖВҳhad he it before he
was imprisoned?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNo, monsieur; but it appears that in prison he made the acquaintance
of a rich Englishman, and as in prison he fell sick, and DantГғВЁs took
the same care of him as if he had been his brother, the Englishman,
when he was set free, gave this stone to DantГғВЁs, who, less fortunate,
died, and, in his turn, left it to us, and charged the excellent abbГғВ©,
who was here this morning, to deliver it.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe same story,ГўВҖВҷ muttered the jeweller; ГўВҖВҳand improbable as it seemed
at first, it may be true. ThereГўВҖВҷs only the price we are not agreed
about.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHow not agreed about?ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВҳI thought we agreed for the
price I asked.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThat is,ГўВҖВҷ replied the jeweller, ГўВҖВҳI offered 40,000 francs.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВҳForty thousand,ГўВҖВҷ cried La Carconte; ГўВҖВҳwe will not part with it for that
sum. The abbГғВ© told us it was worth 50,000 without the setting.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat was the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs name?ГўВҖВҷ asked the indefatigable questioner.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe AbbГғВ© Busoni,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHe was a foreigner?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAn Italian from the neighborhood of Mantua, I believe.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳLet me see this diamond again,ГўВҖВҷ replied the jeweller; ГўВҖВҳthe first time
you are often mistaken as to the value of a stone.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңCaderousse took from his pocket a small case of black shagreen,
opened, and gave it to the jeweller. At the sight of the diamond, which
was as large as a hazel-nut, La CarconteГўВҖВҷs eyes sparkled with
cupidity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did you think of this fine story, eavesdropper?ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo; ГўВҖВңdid you credit it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency. I did not look on Caderousse as a bad man, and I
thought him incapable of committing a crime, or even a theft.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat did more honor to your heart than to your experience, M.
Bertuccio. Had you known this Edmond DantГғВЁs, of whom they spoke?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, your excellency, I had never heard of him before, and never but
once afterwards, and that was from the AbbГғВ© Busoni himself, when I saw
him in the prison at NГғВ®mes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe jeweller took the ring, and drawing from his pocket a pair of
steel pliers and a small set of copper scales, he took the stone out of
its setting, and weighed it carefully.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI will give you 45,000,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳbut not a sou more; besides, as
that is the exact value of the stone, I brought just that sum with me.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOh, thatГўВҖВҷs no matter,ГўВҖВҷ replied Caderousse, ГўВҖВҳI will go back with you
to fetch the other 5,000 francs.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNo,ГўВҖВҷ returned the jeweller, giving back the diamond and the ring to
Caderousse, ГўВҖВҳno, it is worth no more, and I am sorry I offered so much,
for the stone has a flaw in it, which I had not seen. However, I will
not go back on my word, and I will give 45,000.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAt least, replace the diamond in the ring,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte sharply.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAh, true,ГўВҖВҷ replied the jeweller, and he reset the stone.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNo matter,ГўВҖВҷ observed Caderousse, replacing the box in his pocket,
ГўВҖВҳsomeone else will purchase it.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ continued the jeweller; ГўВҖВҳbut someone else will not be so easy
as I am, or content himself with the same story. It is not natural that
a man like you should possess such a diamond. He will inform against
you. You will have to find the AbbГғВ© Busoni; and abbГғВ©s who give diamonds
worth two thousand louis are rare. The law would seize it, and put you
in prison; if at the end of three or four months you are set at
liberty, the ring will be lost, or a false stone, worth three francs,
will be given you, instead of a diamond worth 50,000 or perhaps 55,000
francs; from which you must allow that one runs considerable risk in
purchasing.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңCaderousse and his wife looked eagerly at each other.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNo,ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВҳwe are not rich enough to lose 5,000 francs.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAs you please, my dear sir,ГўВҖВҷ said the jeweller; ГўВҖВҳI had, however, as
you see, brought you the money in bright coin.ГўВҖВҷ And he drew from his
pocket a handful of gold, and held it sparkling before the dazzled eyes
of the innkeeper, and in the other hand he held a packet of bank-notes.

ГўВҖВңThere was evidently a severe struggle in the mind of Caderousse; it
was plain that the small shagreen case, which he turned over and over
in his hand, did not seem to him commensurate in value to the enormous
sum which fascinated his gaze. He turned towards his wife.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat do you think of this?ГўВҖВҷ he asked in a low voice.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳLet him have itГўВҖВ”let him have it,ГўВҖВҷ she said. ГўВҖВҳIf he returns to
Beaucaire without the diamond, he will inform against us, and, as he
says, who knows if we shall ever again see the AbbГғВ© Busoni?ГўВҖВ”in all
probability we shall never see him.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell, then, so I will!ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВҳso you may have the diamond
for 45,000 francs. But my wife wants a gold chain, and I want a pair of
silver buckles.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe jeweller drew from his pocket a long flat box, which contained
several samples of the articles demanded. ГўВҖВҳHere,ГўВҖВҷ he said, ГўВҖВҳI am very
straightforward in my dealingsГўВҖВ”take your choice.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe woman selected a gold chain worth about five louis, and the
husband a pair of buckles, worth perhaps fifteen francs.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI hope you will not complain now?ГўВҖВҷ said the jeweller.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe abbГғВ© told me it was worth 50,000 francs,ГўВҖВҷ muttered Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳCome, comeГўВҖВ”give it to me! What a strange fellow you are,ГўВҖВҷ said the
jeweller, taking the diamond from his hand. ГўВҖВҳI give you 45,000
francsГўВҖВ”that is, 2,500 livres of income,ГўВҖВ”a fortune such as I wish I had
myself, and you are not satisfied!ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd the five-and-forty thousand francs,ГўВҖВҷ inquired Caderousse in a
hoarse voice, ГўВҖВҳwhere are they? ComeГўВҖВ”let us see them.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHere they are,ГўВҖВҷ replied the jeweller, and he counted out upon the
table 15,000 francs in gold, and 30,000 francs in bank-notes.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWait whilst I light the lamp,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte; ГўВҖВҳit is growing dark,
and there may be some mistake.ГўВҖВҷ In fact, night had come on during this
conversation, and with night the storm which had been threatening for
the last half-hour. The thunder growled in the distance; but it was
apparently not heard by the jeweller, Caderousse, or La Carconte,
absorbed as they were all three with the demon of gain. I myself felt
a strange kind of fascination at the sight of all this gold and all
these bank-notes; it seemed to me that I was in a dream, and, as it
always happens in a dream, I felt myself riveted to the spot.
Caderousse counted and again counted the gold and the notes, then
handed them to his wife, who counted and counted them again in her
turn. During this time, the jeweller made the diamond play and sparkle
in the lamplight, and the gem threw out jets of light which made him
unmindful of those whichГўВҖВ”precursors of the stormГўВҖВ”began to play in at
the windows.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell,ГўВҖВҷ inquired the jeweller, ГўВҖВҳis the cash all right?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВҳGive me the pocket-book, La Carconte, and
find a bag somewhere.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңLa Carconte went to a cupboard, and returned with an old leathern
pocket-book and a bag. From the former she took some greasy letters,
and put in their place the bank-notes, and from the bag took two or
three crowns of six livres each, which, in all probability, formed the
entire fortune of the miserable couple.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThere,ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВҳand now, although you have wronged us of
perhaps 10,000 francs, will you have your supper with us? I invite you
with good-will.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThank you,ГўВҖВҷ replied the jeweller, ГўВҖВҳit must be getting late, and I
must return to BeaucaireГўВҖВ”my wife will be getting uneasy.ГўВҖВҷ He drew out
his watch, and exclaimed, ГўВҖВҳ_Morbleu!_ nearly nine oГўВҖВҷclockГўВҖВ”why, I shall
not get back to Beaucaire before midnight! Good-night, my friends. If
the AbbГғВ© Busoni should by any accident return, think of me.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIn another week you will have left Beaucaire,ГўВҖВҷ remarked Caderousse,
ГўВҖВҳfor the fair ends in a few days.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTrue, but that makes no difference. Write to me at Paris, to M.
Joannes, in the Palais Royal, arcade Pierre, No. 45. I will make the
journey on purpose to see him, if it is worth while.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңAt this moment there was a tremendous clap of thunder, accompanied by
a flash of lightning so vivid, that it quite eclipsed the light of the
lamp.

20307m



ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳSee here,ГўВҖВҷ exclaimed Caderousse. ГўВҖВҳYou cannot think of going out in
such weather as this.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOh, I am not afraid of thunder,ГўВҖВҷ said the jeweller.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd then there are robbers,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte. ГўВҖВҳThe road is never
very safe during fair time.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOh, as to the robbers,ГўВҖВҷ said Joannes, ГўВҖВҳhere is something for them,ГўВҖВҷ
and he drew from his pocket a pair of small pistols, loaded to the
muzzle. ГўВҖВҳHere,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳare dogs who bark and bite at the same time,
they are for the two first who shall have a longing for your diamond,
Friend Caderousse.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңCaderousse and his wife again interchanged a meaning look. It seemed
as though they were both inspired at the same time with some horrible
thought. ГўВҖВҳWell, then, a good journey to you,ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThanks,ГўВҖВҷ replied the jeweller. He then took his cane, which he had
placed against an old cupboard, and went out. At the moment when he
opened the door, such a gust of wind came in that the lamp was nearly
extinguished. ГўВҖВҳOh,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳthis is very nice weather, and two
leagues to go in such a storm.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳRemain,ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВҳYou can sleep here.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes; do stay,ГўВҖВҷ added La Carconte in a tremulous voice; ГўВҖВҳwe will take
every care of you.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNo; I must sleep at Beaucaire. So, once more, good-night.ГўВҖВҷ Caderousse
followed him slowly to the threshold. ГўВҖВҳI can see neither heaven nor
earth,ГўВҖВҷ said the jeweller, who was outside the door. ГўВҖВҳDo I turn to the
right, or to the left hand?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTo the right,ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВҳYou cannot go wrongГўВҖВ”the road is
bordered by trees on both sides.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳGoodГўВҖВ”all right,ГўВҖВҷ said a voice almost lost in the distance.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳClose the door,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte; ГўВҖВҳI do not like open doors when it
thunders.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳParticularly when there is money in the house, eh?ГўВҖВҷ answered
Caderousse, double-locking the door.

20311m



ГўВҖВңHe came into the room, went to the cupboard, took out the bag and
pocket-book, and both began, for the third time, to count their gold
and bank-notes. I never saw such an expression of cupidity as the
flickering lamp revealed in those two countenances. The woman,
especially, was hideous; her usual feverish tremulousness was
intensified, her countenance had become livid, and her eyes resembled
burning coals.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhy,ГўВҖВҷ she inquired in a hoarse voice, ГўВҖВҳdid you invite him to sleep
here tonight?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhy?ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse with a shudder; ГўВҖВҳwhy, that he might not have
the trouble of returning to Beaucaire.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAh,ГўВҖВҷ responded the woman, with an expression impossible to describe;
ГўВҖВҳI thought it was for something else.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWoman, womanГўВҖВ”why do you have such ideas?ГўВҖВҷ cried Caderousse; ГўВҖВҳor, if
you have them, why donГўВҖВҷt you keep them to yourself?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte, after a momentГўВҖВҷs pause, ГўВҖВҳyou are not a man.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВҷ added Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIf you had been a man, you would not have let him go from here.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWoman!ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOr else he should not have reached Beaucaire.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWoman!ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe road takes a turnГўВҖВ”he is obliged to follow itГўВҖВ”while alongside of
the canal there is a shorter road.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWoman!ГўВҖВ”you offend the good God. ThereГўВҖВ”listen!ГўВҖВҷ

And at this moment there was a tremendous peal of thunder, while the
livid lightning illumined the room, and the thunder, rolling away in
the distance, seemed to withdraw unwillingly from the cursed abode.
ГўВҖВҳMercy!ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse, crossing himself.

20312m



ГўВҖВңAt the same moment, and in the midst of the terrifying silence which
usually follows a clap of thunder, they heard a knocking at the door.
Caderousse and his wife started and looked aghast at each other.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhoГўВҖВҷs there?ГўВҖВҷ cried Caderousse, rising, and drawing up in a heap the
gold and notes scattered over the table, and which he covered with his
two hands.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIt is I,ГўВҖВҷ shouted a voice.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd who are you?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳEh, _pardieu!_ Joannes, the jeweller.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell, and you said I offended the good God,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte with a
horrid smile. ГўВҖВҳWhy, the good God sends him back again.ГўВҖВҷ Caderousse sank
pale and breathless into his chair.

ГўВҖВңLa Carconte, on the contrary, rose, and going with a firm step towards
the door, opened it, saying, as she did so:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳCome in, dear M. Joannes.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳ_Ma foi_,ГўВҖВҷ said the jeweller, drenched with rain, ГўВҖВҳI am not destined
to return to Beaucaire tonight. The shortest follies are best, my dear
Caderousse. You offered me hospitality, and I accept it, and have
returned to sleep beneath your friendly roof.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңCaderousse stammered out something, while he wiped away the sweat that
started to his brow. La Carconte double-locked the door behind the
jeweller.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 45. The Rain of Blood

As the jeweller returned to the apartment, he cast around him a
scrutinizing glanceГўВҖВ”but there was nothing to excite suspicion, if it
did not exist, or to confirm it, if it were already awakened.
CaderousseГўВҖВҷs hands still grasped the gold and bank-notes, and La
Carconte called up her sweetest smiles while welcoming the reappearance
of their guest.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell, well,ГўВҖВҷ said the jeweller, ГўВҖВҳyou seem, my good friends, to have
had some fears respecting the accuracy of your money, by counting it
over so carefully directly I was gone.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOh, no,ГўВҖВҷ answered Caderousse, ГўВҖВҳthat was not my reason, I can assure
you; but the circumstances by which we have become possessed of this
wealth are so unexpected, as to make us scarcely credit our good
fortune, and it is only by placing the actual proof of our riches
before our eyes that we can persuade ourselves that the whole affair is
not a dream.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe jeweller smiled. ГўВҖВҳHave you any other guests in your house?ГўВҖВҷ
inquired he.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNobody but ourselves,ГўВҖВҷ replied Caderousse; ГўВҖВҳthe fact is, we do not
lodge travellersГўВҖВ”indeed, our tavern is so near the town, that nobody
would think of stopping here.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThen I am afraid I shall very much inconvenience you.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳInconvenience us? Not at all, my dear sir,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte in her
most gracious manner. ГўВҖВҳNot at all, I assure you.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBut where will you manage to stow me?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIn the chamber overhead.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳSurely that is where you yourselves sleep?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNever mind that; we have a second bed in the adjoining room.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңCaderousse stared at his wife with much astonishment.

ГўВҖВңThe jeweller, meanwhile, was humming a song as he stood warming his
back at the fire La Carconte had kindled to dry the wet garments of her
guest; and this done, she next occupied herself in arranging his
supper, by spreading a napkin at the end of the table, and placing on
it the slender remains of their dinner, to which she added three or
four fresh-laid eggs. Caderousse had once more parted with his
treasureГўВҖВ”the banknotes were replaced in the pocket-book, the gold put
back into the bag, and the whole carefully locked in the cupboard. He
then began pacing the room with a pensive and gloomy air, glancing from
time to time at the jeweller, who stood reeking with the steam from his
wet clothes, and merely changing his place on the warm hearth, to
enable the whole of his garments to be dried.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThere,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte, as she placed a bottle of wine on the
table, ГўВҖВҳsupper is ready whenever you are.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd you?ГўВҖВҷ asked Joannes.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI donГўВҖВҷt want any supper,ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWe dined so very late,ГўВҖВҷ hastily interposed La Carconte.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThen it seems I am to eat alone,ГўВҖВҷ remarked the jeweller.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOh, we shall have the pleasure of waiting upon you,ГўВҖВҷ answered La
Carconte, with an eager attention she was not accustomed to manifest
even to guests who paid for what they took.

ГўВҖВңFrom time to time Caderousse darted on his wife keen, searching
glances, but rapid as the lightning flash. The storm still continued.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThere, there,ГўВҖВҷ said La Carconte; ГўВҖВҳdo you hear that? upon my word, you
did well to come back.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNevertheless,ГўВҖВҷ replied the jeweller, ГўВҖВҳif by the time I have finished
my supper the tempest has at all abated, I shall make another start.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳItГўВҖВҷs the mistral,ГўВҖВҷ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВҳand it will be sure to last till
tomorrow morning.ГўВҖВҷ He sighed heavily.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWell,ГўВҖВҷ said the jeweller, as he placed himself at table, ГўВҖВҳall I can
say is, so much the worse for those who are abroad.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ chimed in La Carconte, ГўВҖВҳthey will have a wretched night of it.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe jeweller began eating his supper, and the woman, who was
ordinarily so querulous and indifferent to all who approached her, was
suddenly transformed into the most smiling and attentive hostess. Had
the unhappy man on whom she lavished her assiduities been previously
acquainted with her, so sudden an alteration might well have excited
suspicion in his mind, or at least have greatly astonished him.
Caderousse, meanwhile, continued to pace the room in gloomy silence,
sedulously avoiding the sight of his guest; but as soon as the stranger
had completed his repast, the agitated innkeeper went eagerly to the
door and opened it.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI believe the storm is over,ГўВҖВҷ said he.

ГўВҖВңBut as if to contradict his statement, at that instant a violent clap
of thunder seemed to shake the house to its very foundation, while a
sudden gust of wind, mingled with rain, extinguished the lamp he held
in his hand.

ГўВҖВңTrembling and awe-struck, Caderousse hastily shut the door and
returned to his guest, while La Carconte lighted a candle by the
smouldering ashes that glimmered on the hearth.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYou must be tired,ГўВҖВҷ said she to the jeweller; ГўВҖВҳI have spread a pair
of white sheets on your bed; go up when you are ready, and sleep well.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңJoannes stayed for a while to see whether the storm seemed to abate in
its fury, but a brief space of time sufficed to assure him that,
instead of diminishing, the violence of the rain and thunder
momentarily increased; resigning himself, therefore, to what seemed
inevitable, he bade his host good-night, and mounted the stairs. He
passed over my head and I heard the flooring creak beneath his
footsteps. The quick, eager glance of La Carconte followed him as he
ascended, while Caderousse, on the contrary, turned his back, and
seemed most anxiously to avoid even glancing at him.

ГўВҖВңAll these circumstances did not strike me as painfully at the time as
they have since done; in fact, all that had happened (with the
exception of the story of the diamond, which certainly did wear an air
of improbability), appeared natural enough, and called for neither
apprehension nor mistrust; but, worn out as I was with fatigue, and
fully purposing to proceed onwards directly the tempest abated, I
determined to obtain a few hoursГўВҖВҷ sleep. Overhead I could accurately
distinguish every movement of the jeweller, who, after making the best
arrangements in his power for passing a comfortable night, threw
himself on his bed, and I could hear it creak and groan beneath his
weight.

ГўВҖВңInsensibly my eyelids grew heavy, deep sleep stole over me, and having
no suspicion of anything wrong, I sought not to shake it off. I looked
into the kitchen once more and saw Caderousse sitting by the side of a
long table upon one of the low wooden stools which in country places
are frequently used instead of chairs; his back was turned towards me,
so that I could not see the expression of his countenanceГўВҖВ”neither
should I have been able to do so had he been placed differently, as his
head was buried between his two hands. La Carconte continued to gaze on
him for some time, then shrugging her shoulders, she took her seat
immediately opposite to him.

ГўВҖВңAt this moment the expiring embers threw up a fresh flame from the
kindling of a piece of wood that lay near, and a bright light flashed
over the room. La Carconte still kept her eyes fixed on her husband,
but as he made no sign of changing his position, she extended her hard,
bony hand, and touched him on the forehead.

20317m



ГўВҖВңCaderousse shuddered. The womanГўВҖВҷs lips seemed to move, as though she
were talking; but because she merely spoke in an undertone, or my
senses were dulled by sleep, I did not catch a word she uttered.
Confused sights and sounds seemed to float before me, and gradually I
fell into a deep, heavy slumber. How long I had been in this
unconscious state I know not, when I was suddenly aroused by the report
of a pistol, followed by a fearful cry. Weak and tottering footsteps
resounded across the chamber above me, and the next instant a dull,
heavy weight seemed to fall powerless on the staircase. I had not yet
fully recovered consciousness, when again I heard groans, mingled with
half-stifled cries, as if from persons engaged in a deadly struggle. A
cry more prolonged than the others and ending in a series of groans
effectually roused me from my drowsy lethargy. Hastily raising myself
on one arm, I looked around, but all was dark; and it seemed to me as
if the rain must have penetrated through the flooring of the room
above, for some kind of moisture appeared to fall, drop by drop, upon
my forehead, and when I passed my hand across my brow, I felt that it
was wet and clammy.

ГўВҖВңTo the fearful noises that had awakened me had succeeded the most
perfect silenceГўВҖВ”unbroken, save by the footsteps of a man walking about
in the chamber above. The staircase creaked, he descended into the room
below, approached the fire and lit a candle.

ГўВҖВңThe man was CaderousseГўВҖВ”he was pale and his shirt was all bloody.
Having obtained the light, he hurried upstairs again, and once more I
heard his rapid and uneasy footsteps.

ГўВҖВңA moment later he came down again, holding in his hand the small
shagreen case, which he opened, to assure himself it contained the
diamond,ГўВҖВ”seemed to hesitate as to which pocket he should put it in,
then, as if dissatisfied with the security of either pocket, he
deposited it in his red handkerchief, which he carefully rolled round
his head.

ГўВҖВңAfter this he took from his cupboard the bank-notes and gold he had
put there, thrust the one into the pocket of his trousers, and the
other into that of his waistcoat, hastily tied up a small bundle of
linen, and rushing towards the door, disappeared in the darkness of the
night.

ГўВҖВңThen all became clear and manifest to me, and I reproached myself with
what had happened, as though I myself had done the guilty deed. I
fancied that I still heard faint moans, and imagining that the
unfortunate jeweller might not be quite dead, I determined to go to his
relief, by way of atoning in some slight degree, not for the crime I
had committed, but for that which I had not endeavored to prevent. For
this purpose I applied all the strength I possessed to force an
entrance from the cramped spot in which I lay to the adjoining room.
The poorly fastened boards which alone divided me from it yielded to my
efforts, and I found myself in the house. Hastily snatching up the
lighted candle, I hurried to the staircase; about midway a body was
lying quite across the stairs. It was that of La Carconte. The pistol I
had heard had doubtless been fired at her. The shot had frightfully
lacerated her throat, leaving two gaping wounds from which, as well as
the mouth, the blood was pouring in floods. She was stone dead. I
strode past her, and ascended to the sleeping chamber, which presented
an appearance of the wildest disorder. The furniture had been knocked
over in the deadly struggle that had taken place there, and the sheets,
to which the unfortunate jeweller had doubtless clung, were dragged
across the room. The murdered man lay on the floor, his head leaning
against the wall, and about him was a pool of blood which poured forth
from three large wounds in his breast; there was a fourth gash, in
which a long table knife was plunged up to the handle.

ГўВҖВңI stumbled over some object; I stooped to examineГўВҖВ”it was the second
pistol, which had not gone off, probably from the powder being wet. I
approached the jeweller, who was not quite dead, and at the sound of my
footsteps and the creaking of the floor, he opened his eyes, fixed them
on me with an anxious and inquiring gaze, moved his lips as though
trying to speak, then, overcome by the effort, fell back and expired.

ГўВҖВңThis appalling sight almost bereft me of my senses, and finding that I
could no longer be of service to anyone in the house, my only desire
was to fly. I rushed towards the staircase, clutching my hair, and
uttering a groan of horror.

ГўВҖВңUpon reaching the room below, I found five or six custom-house
officers, and two or three gendarmesГўВҖВ”all heavily armed. They threw
themselves upon me. I made no resistance; I was no longer master of my
senses. When I strove to speak, a few inarticulate sounds alone escaped
my lips.

ГўВҖВңAs I noticed the significant manner in which the whole party pointed
to my blood-stained garments, I involuntarily surveyed myself, and then
I discovered that the thick warm drops that had so bedewed me as I lay
beneath the staircase must have been the blood of La Carconte. I
pointed to the spot where I had concealed myself.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat does he mean?ГўВҖВҷ asked a gendarme.

ГўВҖВңOne of the officers went to the place I directed.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHe means,ГўВҖВҷ replied the man upon his return, ГўВҖВҳthat he got in that
way;ГўВҖВҷ and he showed the hole I had made when I broke through.

ГўВҖВңThen I saw that they took me for the assassin. I recovered force and
energy enough to free myself from the hands of those who held me, while
I managed to stammer forth:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI did not do it! Indeed, indeed I did not!ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңA couple of gendarmes held the muzzles of their carbines against my
breast.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳStir but a step,ГўВҖВҷ said they, ГўВҖВҳand you are a dead man.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhy should you threaten me with death,ГўВҖВҷ cried I, ГўВҖВҳwhen I have already
declared my innocence?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTush, tush,ГўВҖВҷ cried the men; ГўВҖВҳkeep your innocent stories to tell to
the judge at NГғВ®mes. Meanwhile, come along with us; and the best advice
we can give you is to do so unresistingly.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңAlas, resistance was far from my thoughts. I was utterly overpowered
by surprise and terror; and without a word I suffered myself to be
handcuffed and tied to a horseГўВҖВҷs tail, and thus they took me to NГғВ®mes.

ГўВҖВңI had been tracked by a customs-officer, who had lost sight of me near
the tavern; feeling certain that I intended to pass the night there, he
had returned to summon his comrades, who just arrived in time to hear
the report of the pistol, and to take me in the midst of such
circumstantial proofs of my guilt as rendered all hopes of proving my
innocence utterly futile. One only chance was left me, that of
beseeching the magistrate before whom I was taken to cause every
inquiry to be made for the AbbГғВ© Busoni, who had stopped at the inn of
the Pont du Gard on that morning.

ГўВҖВңIf Caderousse had invented the story relative to the diamond, and
there existed no such person as the AbbГғВ© Busoni, then, indeed, I was
lost past redemption, or, at least, my life hung upon the feeble chance
of Caderousse himself being apprehended and confessing the whole truth.

ГўВҖВңTwo months passed away in hopeless expectation on my part, while I
must do the magistrate the justice to say that he used every means to
obtain information of the person I declared could exculpate me if he
would. Caderousse still evaded all pursuit, and I had resigned myself
to what seemed my inevitable fate. My trial was to come on at the
approaching assizes; when, on the 8th of SeptemberГўВҖВ”that is to say,
precisely three months and five days after the events which had
perilled my lifeГўВҖВ”the AbbГғВ© Busoni, whom I never ventured to believe I
should see, presented himself at the prison doors, saying he understood
one of the prisoners wished to speak to him; he added, that having
learned at Marseilles the particulars of my imprisonment, he hastened
to comply with my desire.

ГўВҖВңYou may easily imagine with what eagerness I welcomed him, and how
minutely I related the whole of what I had seen and heard. I felt some
degree of nervousness as I entered upon the history of the diamond,
but, to my inexpressible astonishment, he confirmed it in every
particular, and to my equal surprise, he seemed to place entire belief
in all I said.

ГўВҖВңAnd then it was that, won by his mild charity, seeing that he was
acquainted with all the habits and customs of my own country, and
considering also that pardon for the only crime of which I was really
guilty might come with a double power from lips so benevolent and kind,
I besought him to receive my confession, under the seal of which I
recounted the Auteuil affair in all its details, as well as every other
transaction of my life. That which I had done by the impulse of my best
feelings produced the same effect as though it had been the result of
calculation. My voluntary confession of the assassination at Auteuil
proved to him that I had not committed that of which I stood accused.
When he quitted me, he bade me be of good courage, and to rely upon his
doing all in his power to convince my judges of my innocence.

ГўВҖВңI had speedy proofs that the excellent abbГғВ© was engaged in my behalf,
for the rigors of my imprisonment were alleviated by many trifling
though acceptable indulgences, and I was told that my trial was to be
postponed to the assizes following those now being held.

ГўВҖВңIn the interim it pleased Providence to cause the apprehension of
Caderousse, who was discovered in some distant country, and brought
back to France, where he made a full confession, refusing to make the
fact of his wifeГўВҖВҷs having suggested and arranged the murder any excuse
for his own guilt. The wretched man was sentenced to the galleys for
life, and I was immediately set at liberty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd then it was, I presume,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңthat you came to me as
the bearer of a letter from the AbbГғВ© Busoni?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was, your excellency; the benevolent abbГғВ© took an evident interest
in all that concerned me.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYour mode of life as a smuggler,ГўВҖВҷ said he to me one day, ГўВҖВҳwill be the
ruin of you; if you get out, donГўВҖВҷt take it up again.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBut how,ГўВҖВҷ inquired I, ГўВҖВҳam I to maintain myself and my poor sister?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳA person, whose confessor I am,ГўВҖВҷ replied he, ГўВҖВҳand who entertains a
high regard for me, applied to me a short time since to procure him a
confidential servant. Would you like such a post? If so, I will give
you a letter of introduction to him.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳOh, father,ГўВҖВҷ I exclaimed, ГўВҖВҳyou are very good.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBut you must swear solemnly that I shall never have reason to repent
my recommendation.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңI extended my hand, and was about to pledge myself by any promise he
would dictate, but he stopped me.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIt is unnecessary for you to bind yourself by any vow,ГўВҖВҷ said he; ГўВҖВҳI
know and admire the Corsican nature too well to fear you. Here, take
this,ГўВҖВҷ continued he, after rapidly writing the few lines I brought to
your excellency, and upon receipt of which you deigned to receive me
into your service, and proudly I ask whether your excellency has ever
had cause to repent having done so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңI take pleasure in saying that you have
served me faithfully, Bertuccio; but you might have shown more
confidence in me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI, your excellency?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; you. How comes it, that having both a sister and an adopted son,
you have never spoken to me of either?ГўВҖВқ

20323m



ГўВҖВңAlas, I have still to recount the most distressing period of my life.
Anxious as you may suppose I was to behold and comfort my dear sister,
I lost no time in hastening to Corsica, but when I arrived at Rogliano
I found a house of mourning, the consequences of a scene so horrible
that the neighbors remember and speak of it to this day. Acting by my
advice, my poor sister had refused to comply with the unreasonable
demands of Benedetto, who was continually tormenting her for money, as
long as he believed there was a sou left in her possession. One morning
he threatened her with the severest consequences if she did not supply
him with what he desired, and disappeared and remained away all day,
leaving the kind-hearted Assunta, who loved him as if he were her own
child, to weep over his conduct and bewail his absence. Evening came,
and still, with all the patient solicitude of a mother, she watched for
his return.

ГўВҖВңAs the eleventh hour struck, he entered with a swaggering air,
attended by two of the most dissolute and reckless of his boon
companions. She stretched out her arms to him, but they seized hold of
her, and one of the threeГўВҖВ”none other than the accursed Benedetto
exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳPut her to torture and sheГўВҖВҷll soon tell us where her money is.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңIt unfortunately happened that our neighbor, Wasilio, was at Bastia,
leaving no person in his house but his wife; no human creature beside
could hear or see anything that took place within our dwelling. Two
held poor Assunta, who, unable to conceive that any harm was intended
to her, smiled in the face of those who were soon to become her
executioners. The third proceeded to barricade the doors and windows,
then returned, and the three united in stifling the cries of terror
incited by the sight of these preparations, and then dragged Assunta
feet foremost towards the brazier, expecting to wring from her an
avowal of where her supposed treasure was secreted. In the struggle her
clothes caught fire, and they were obliged to let go their hold in
order to preserve themselves from sharing the same fate. Covered with
flames, Assunta rushed wildly to the door, but it was fastened; she
flew to the windows, but they were also secured; then the neighbors
heard frightful shrieks; it was Assunta calling for help. The cries
died away in groans, and next morning, as soon as WasilioГўВҖВҷs wife could
muster up courage to venture abroad, she caused the door of our
dwelling to be opened by the public authorities, when Assunta, although
dreadfully burnt, was found still breathing; every drawer and closet in
the house had been forced open, and the money stolen. Benedetto never
again appeared at Rogliano, neither have I since that day either seen
or heard anything concerning him.

ГўВҖВңIt was subsequently to these dreadful events that I waited on your
excellency, to whom it would have been folly to have mentioned
Benedetto, since all trace of him seemed entirely lost; or of my
sister, since she was dead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd in what light did you view the occurrence?ГўВҖВқ inquired Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңAs a punishment for the crime I had committed,ГўВҖВқ answered Bertuccio.
ГўВҖВңOh, those Villeforts are an accursed race!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTruly they are,ГўВҖВқ murmured the count in a lugubrious tone.

ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ resumed Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңyour excellency may, perhaps, be able to
comprehend that this place, which I revisit for the first timeГўВҖВ”this
garden, the actual scene of my crimeГўВҖВ”must have given rise to
reflections of no very agreeable nature, and produced that gloom and
depression of spirits which excited the notice of your excellency, who
was pleased to express a desire to know the cause. At this instant a
shudder passes over me as I reflect that possibly I am now standing on
the very grave in which lies M. de Villefort, by whose hand the ground
was dug to receive the corpse of his child.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverything is possible,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, rising from the bench on
which he had been sitting; ГўВҖВңeven,ГўВҖВқ he added in an inaudible voice,
ГўВҖВңeven that the procureur be not dead. The AbbГғВ© Busoni did right to send
you to me,ГўВҖВқ he went on in his ordinary tone, ГўВҖВңand you have done well in
relating to me the whole of your history, as it will prevent my forming
any erroneous opinions concerning you in future. As for that Benedetto,
who so grossly belied his name, have you never made any effort to trace
out whither he has gone, or what has become of him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; far from wishing to learn whither he has betaken himself, I should
shun the possibility of meeting him as I would a wild beast. Thank God,
I have never heard his name mentioned by any person, and I hope and
believe he is dead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not think so, Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңfor the wicked are
not so easily disposed of, for God seems to have them under his special
watch-care to make of them instruments of his vengeance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo be it,ГўВҖВқ responded Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңall I ask of heaven is that I may
never see him again. And now, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ he added, bowing his
head, ГўВҖВңyou know everythingГўВҖВ”you are my judge on earth, as the Almighty
is in heaven; have you for me no words of consolation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy good friend, I can only repeat the words addressed to you by the
AbbГғВ© Busoni. Villefort merited punishment for what he had done to you,
and, perhaps, to others. Benedetto, if still living, will become the
instrument of divine retribution in some way or other, and then be duly
punished in his turn. As far as you yourself are concerned, I see but
one point in which you are really guilty. Ask yourself, wherefore,
after rescuing the infant from its living grave, you did not restore it
to its mother? There was the crime, BertuccioГўВҖВ”that was where you became
really culpable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, excellency, that was the crime, the real crime, for in that I
acted like a coward. My first duty, directly I had succeeded in
recalling the babe to life, was to restore it to its mother; but, in
order to do so, I must have made close and careful inquiry, which
would, in all probability, have led to my own apprehension; and I clung
to life, partly on my sisterГўВҖВҷs account, and partly from that feeling of
pride inborn in our hearts of desiring to come off untouched and
victorious in the execution of our vengeance. Perhaps, too, the natural
and instinctive love of life made me wish to avoid endangering my own.
And then, again, I am not as brave and courageous as was my poor
brother.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio hid his face in his hands as he uttered these words, while
Monte Cristo fixed on him a look of inscrutable meaning. After a brief
silence, rendered still more solemn by the time and place, the count
said, in a tone of melancholy wholly unlike his usual manner:

ГўВҖВңIn order to bring this conversation to a fitting termination (the last
we shall ever hold upon this subject), I will repeat to you some words
I have heard from the lips of the AbbГғВ© Busoni. For all evils there are
two remediesГўВҖВ”time and silence. And now leave me, Monsieur Bertuccio, to
walk alone here in the garden. The very circumstances which inflict on
you, as a principal in the tragic scene enacted here, such painful
emotions, are to me, on the contrary, a source of something like
contentment, and serve but to enhance the value of this dwelling in my
estimation. The chief beauty of trees consists in the deep shadow of
their umbrageous boughs, while fancy pictures a moving multitude of
shapes and forms flitting and passing beneath that shade. Here I have a
garden laid out in such a way as to afford the fullest scope for the
imagination, and furnished with thickly grown trees, beneath whose
leafy screen a visionary like myself may conjure up phantoms at will.
This to me, who expected but to find a blank enclosure surrounded by a
straight wall, is, I assure you, a most agreeable surprise. I have no
fear of ghosts, and I have never heard it said that so much harm had
been done by the dead during six thousand years as is wrought by the
living in a single day. Retire within, Bertuccio, and tranquillize your
mind. Should your confessor be less indulgent to you in your dying
moments than you found the AbbГғВ© Busoni, send for me, if I am still on
earth, and I will soothe your ears with words that shall effectually
calm and soothe your parting soul ere it goes forth to traverse the
ocean called eternity.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio bowed respectfully, and turned away, sighing heavily. Monte
Cristo, left alone, took three or four steps onwards, and murmured:

ГўВҖВңHere, beneath this plane-tree, must have been where the infantГўВҖВҷs grave
was dug. There is the little door opening into the garden. At this
corner is the private staircase communicating with the sleeping
apartment. There will be no necessity for me to make a note of these
particulars, for there, before my eyes, beneath my feet, all around me,
I have the plan sketched with all the living reality of truth.ГўВҖВқ

After making the tour of the garden a second time, the count re-entered
his carriage, while Bertuccio, who perceived the thoughtful expression
of his masterГўВҖВҷs features, took his seat beside the driver without
uttering a word. The carriage proceeded rapidly towards Paris.

That same evening, upon reaching his abode in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, the
Count of Monte Cristo went over the whole building with the air of one
long acquainted with each nook or corner. Nor, although preceding the
party, did he once mistake one door for another, or commit the smallest
error when choosing any particular corridor or staircase to conduct him
to a place or suite of rooms he desired to visit. Ali was his principal
attendant during this nocturnal survey. Having given various orders to
Bertuccio relative to the improvements and alterations he desired to
make in the house, the Count, drawing out his watch, said to the
attentive Nubian:

ГўВҖВңIt is half-past eleven oГўВҖВҷclock; HaydГғВ©e will soon be here. Have the
French attendants been summoned to await her coming?ГўВҖВқ

Ali extended his hands towards the apartments destined for the fair
Greek, which were so effectually concealed by means of a tapestried
entrance, that it would have puzzled the most curious to have divined
their existence. Ali, having pointed to the apartments, held up three
fingers of his right hand, and then, placing it beneath his head, shut
his eyes, and feigned to sleep.

ГўВҖВңI understand,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, well acquainted with AliГўВҖВҷs
pantomime; ГўВҖВңyou mean to tell me that three female attendants await
their new mistress in her sleeping-chamber.ГўВҖВқ

Ali, with considerable animation, made a sign in the affirmative.

ГўВҖВңMadame will be tired tonight,ГўВҖВқ continued Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңand will, no
doubt, wish to rest. Desire the French attendants not to weary her with
questions, but merely to pay their respectful duty and retire. You will
also see that the Greek servants hold no communication with those of
this country.ГўВҖВқ

He bowed. Just at that moment voices were heard hailing the concierge.
The gate opened, a carriage rolled down the avenue, and stopped at the
steps. The count hastily descended, presented himself at the already
opened carriage door, and held out his hand to a young woman,
completely enveloped in a green silk mantle heavily embroidered with
gold. She raised the hand extended towards her to her lips, and kissed
it with a mixture of love and respect. Some few words passed between
them in that sonorous language in which Homer makes his gods converse.
The young woman spoke with an expression of deep tenderness, while the
count replied with an air of gentle gravity.

Preceded by Ali, who carried a rose-colored flambeau in his hand, the
young lady, who was no other than the lovely Greek who had been Monte
CristoГўВҖВҷs companion in Italy, was conducted to her apartments, while the
count retired to the pavilion reserved for himself. In another hour
every light in the house was extinguished, and it might have been
thought that all its inmates slept.



 Chapter 46. Unlimited Credit

About two oГўВҖВҷclock the following day a calash, drawn by a pair of
magnificent English horses, stopped at the door of Monte Cristo and a
person, dressed in a blue coat, with buttons of a similar color, a
white waistcoat, over which was displayed a massive gold chain, brown
trousers, and a quantity of black hair descending so low over his
eyebrows as to leave it doubtful whether it were not artificial so
little did its jetty glossiness assimilate with the deep wrinkles
stamped on his featuresГўВҖВ”a person, in a word, who, although evidently
past fifty, desired to be taken for not more than forty, bent forwards
from the carriage door, on the panels of which were emblazoned the
armorial bearings of a baron, and directed his groom to inquire at the
porterГўВҖВҷs lodge whether the Count of Monte Cristo resided there, and if
he were within.

While waiting, the occupant of the carriage surveyed the house, the
garden as far as he could distinguish it, and the livery of servants
who passed to and fro, with an attention so close as to be somewhat
impertinent. His glance was keen but showed cunning rather than
intelligence; his lips were straight, and so thin that, as they closed,
they were drawn in over the teeth; his cheek-bones were broad and
projecting, a never-failing proof of audacity and craftiness; while the
flatness of his forehead, and the enlargement of the back of his skull,
which rose much higher than his large and coarsely shaped ears,
combined to form a physiognomy anything but prepossessing, save in the
eyes of such as considered that the owner of so splendid an equipage
must needs be all that was admirable and enviable, more especially when
they gazed on the enormous diamond that glittered in his shirt, and the
red ribbon that depended from his button-hole.

The groom, in obedience to his orders, tapped at the window of the
porterГўВҖВҷs lodge, saying:

ГўВҖВңPray, does not the Count of Monte Cristo live here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis excellency does reside here,ГўВҖВқ replied the concierge; ГўВҖВңbutГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ added
he, glancing an inquiring look at Ali. Ali returned a sign in the
negative.

ГўВҖВңBut what?ГўВҖВқ asked the groom.

ГўВҖВңHis excellency does not receive visitors today.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen here is my masterГўВҖВҷs card, the Baron Danglars. You will take it to
the count, and say that, although in haste to attend the Chamber, my
master came out of his way to have the honor of calling upon him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI never speak to his excellency,ГўВҖВқ replied the concierge; ГўВҖВңthe valet de
chambre will carry your message.ГўВҖВқ

The groom returned to the carriage.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars.

The man, somewhat crest-fallen by the rebuke he had received, repeated
what the concierge had said.

ГўВҖВңBless me,ГўВҖВқ murmured Baron Danglars, ГўВҖВңthis must surely be a prince
instead of a count by their styling him ГўВҖВҳexcellency,ГўВҖВҷ and only
venturing to address him by the medium of his valet de chambre.
However, it does not signify; he has a letter of credit on me, so I
must see him when he requires his money.ГўВҖВқ

Then, throwing himself back in his carriage, Danglars called out to his
coachman, in a voice that might be heard across the road, ГўВҖВңTo the
Chamber of Deputies.ГўВҖВқ

Apprised in time of the visit paid him, Monte Cristo had, from behind
the blinds of his pavilion, as minutely observed the baron, by means of
an excellent lorgnette, as Danglars himself had scrutinized the house,
garden, and servants.

ГўВҖВңThat fellow has a decidedly bad countenance,ГўВҖВқ said the count in a tone
of disgust, as he shut up his glass into its ivory case. ГўВҖВңHow comes it
that all do not retreat in aversion at sight of that flat, receding,
serpent-like forehead, round, vulture-shaped head, and sharp-hooked
nose, like the beak of a buzzard? Ali,ГўВҖВқ cried he, striking at the same
time on the brazen gong. Ali appeared. ГўВҖВңSummon Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the
count. Almost immediately Bertuccio entered the apartment.

ГўВҖВңDid your excellency desire to see me?ГўВҖВқ inquired he.

ГўВҖВңI did,ГўВҖВқ replied the count. ГўВҖВңYou no doubt observed the horses standing
a few minutes since at the door?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, your excellency. I noticed them for their remarkable
beauty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen how comes it,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with a frown, ГўВҖВңthat, when I
desired you to purchase for me the finest pair of horses to be found in
Paris, there is another pair, fully as fine as mine, not in my
stables?ГўВҖВқ

At the look of displeasure, added to the angry tone in which the count
spoke, Ali turned pale and held down his head.

ГўВҖВңIt is not your fault, my good Ali,ГўВҖВқ said the count in the Arabic
language, and with a gentleness none would have thought him capable of
showing, either in voice or faceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңit is not your fault. You do not
understand the points of English horses.ГўВҖВқ

The countenance of poor Ali recovered its serenity.

ГўВҖВңPermit me to assure your excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңthat the horses
you speak of were not to be sold when I purchased yours.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo shrugged his shoulders. ГўВҖВңIt seems, sir steward,ГўВҖВқ said he,
ГўВҖВңthat you have yet to learn that all things are to be sold to such as
care to pay the price.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis excellency is not, perhaps, aware that M. Danglars gave 16,000
francs for his horses?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well. Then offer him double that sum; a banker never loses an
opportunity of doubling his capital.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs your excellency really in earnest?ГўВҖВқ inquired the steward.

Monte Cristo regarded the person who durst presume to doubt his words
with the look of one equally surprised and displeased.

ГўВҖВңI have to pay a visit this evening,ГўВҖВқ replied he. ГўВҖВңI desire that these
horses, with completely new harness, may be at the door with my
carriage.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio bowed, and was about to retire; but when he reached the door,
he paused, and then said, ГўВҖВңAt what oГўВҖВҷclock does your excellency wish
the carriage and horses to be ready?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt five oГўВҖВҷclock,ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

ГўВҖВңI beg your excellencyГўВҖВҷs pardon,ГўВҖВқ interposed the steward in a
deprecating manner, ГўВҖВңfor venturing to observe that it is already two
oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am perfectly aware of that fact,ГўВҖВқ answered Monte Cristo calmly.
Then, turning towards Ali, he said, ГўВҖВңLet all the horses in my stables
be led before the windows of your young lady, that she may select those
she prefers for her carriage. Request her also to oblige me by saying
whether it is her pleasure to dine with me; if so, let dinner be served
in her apartments. Now, leave me, and desire my valet de chambre to
come hither.ГўВҖВқ

Scarcely had Ali disappeared when the valet entered the chamber.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Baptistin,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyou have been in my service one
year, the time I generally give myself to judge of the merits or
demerits of those about me. You suit me very well.ГўВҖВқ

Baptistin bowed low.

ГўВҖВңIt only remains for me to know whether I also suit you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, your excellency!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Baptistin eagerly.

ГўВҖВңListen, if you please, till I have finished speaking,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte
Cristo. ГўВҖВңYou receive 1,500 francs per annum for your services hereГўВҖВ”more
than many a brave subaltern, who continually risks his life for his
country, obtains. You live in a manner far superior to many clerks who
work ten times harder than you do for their money. Then, though
yourself a servant, you have other servants to wait upon you, take care
of your clothes, and see that your linen is duly prepared for you.
Again, you make a profit upon each article you purchase for my toilet,
amounting in the course of a year to a sum equalling your wages.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, indeed, your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am not condemning you for this, Monsieur Baptistin; but let your
profits end here. It would be long indeed ere you would find so
lucrative a post as that you have now the good fortune to fill. I
neither ill-use nor ill-treat my servants by word or action. An error I
readily forgive, but wilful negligence or forgetfulness, never. My
commands are ordinarily short, clear, and precise; and I would rather
be obliged to repeat my words twice, or even three times, than they
should be misunderstood. I am rich enough to know whatever I desire to
know, and I can promise you I am not wanting in curiosity. If, then, I
should learn that you had taken upon yourself to speak of me to anyone
favorably or unfavorably, to comment on my actions, or watch my
conduct, that very instant you would quit my service. You may now
retire. I never caution my servants a second timeГўВҖВ”remember that.ГўВҖВқ

Baptistin bowed, and was proceeding towards the door.

ГўВҖВңI forgot to mention to you,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthat I lay yearly aside
a certain sum for each servant in my establishment; those whom I am
compelled to dismiss lose (as a matter of course) all participation in
this money, while their portion goes to the fund accumulating for those
domestics who remain with me, and among whom it will be divided at my
death. You have been in my service a year, your fund has already begun
to accumulateГўВҖВ”let it continue to do so.ГўВҖВқ

This address, delivered in the presence of Ali, who, not understanding
one word of the language in which it was spoken, stood wholly unmoved,
produced an effect on M. Baptistin only to be conceived by such as have
occasion to study the character and disposition of French domestics.

ГўВҖВңI assure your excellency,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthat at least it shall be my
study to merit your approbation in all things, and I will take M. Ali
as my model.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy no means,ГўВҖВқ replied the count in the most frigid tones; ГўВҖВңAli has
many faults mixed with most excellent qualities. He cannot possibly
serve you as a pattern for your conduct, not being, as you are, a paid
servant, but a mere slaveГўВҖВ”a dog, who, should he fail in his duty
towards me, I should not discharge from my service, but kill.ГўВҖВқ

Baptistin opened his eyes with astonishment.

ГўВҖВңYou seem incredulous,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, who repeated to Ali in the
Arabic language what he had just been saying to Baptistin in French.

The Nubian smiled assentingly to his masterГўВҖВҷs words, then, kneeling on
one knee, respectfully kissed the hand of the count. This corroboration
of the lesson he had just received put the finishing stroke to the
wonder and stupefaction of M. Baptistin. The count then motioned the
valet de chambre to retire, and to Ali to follow to his study, where
they conversed long and earnestly together. As the hand of the clock
pointed to five the count struck thrice upon his gong. When Ali was
wanted one stroke was given, two summoned Baptistin, and three
Bertuccio. The steward entered.

ГўВҖВңMy horses,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңThey are at the door harnessed to the carriage as your excellency
desired. Does your excellency wish me to accompany him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, the coachman, Ali, and Baptistin will go.ГўВҖВқ

The count descended to the door of his mansion, and beheld his carriage
drawn by the very pair of horses he had so much admired in the morning
as the property of Danglars. As he passed them he said:

ГўВҖВңThey are extremely handsome certainly, and you have done well to
purchase them, although you were somewhat remiss not to have procured
them sooner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, your excellency, I had very considerable difficulty in
obtaining them, and, as it is, they have cost an enormous price.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes the sum you gave for them make the animals less beautiful,ГўВҖВқ
inquired the count, shrugging his shoulders.

ГўВҖВңNay, if your excellency is satisfied, it is all that I could wish.
Whither does your excellency desire to be driven?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the residence of Baron Danglars, Rue de la ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin.ГўВҖВқ

This conversation had passed as they stood upon the terrace, from which
a flight of stone steps led to the carriage-drive. As Bertuccio, with a
respectful bow, was moving away, the count called him back.

ГўВҖВңI have another commission for you, M. Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңI am
desirous of having an estate by the seaside in NormandyГўВҖВ”for instance,
between Le Havre and Boulogne. You see I give you a wide range. It will
be absolutely necessary that the place you may select have a small
harbor, creek, or bay, into which my corvette can enter and remain at
anchor. She draws only fifteen feet. She must be kept in constant
readiness to sail immediately I think proper to give the signal. Make
the requisite inquiries for a place of this description, and when you
have met with an eligible spot, visit it, and if it possess the
advantages desired, purchase it at once in your own name. The corvette
must now, I think, be on her way to FГғВ©camp, must she not?ГўВҖВқ

20333m



ГўВҖВңCertainly, your excellency; I saw her put to sea the same evening we
quitted Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the yacht.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas ordered to remain at Martigues.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis well. I wish you to write from time to time to the captains in
charge of the two vessels so as to keep them on the alert.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the steamboat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe is at ChГғВўlons?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe same orders for her as for the two sailing vessels.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen you have purchased the estate I desire, I want constant relays of
horses at ten leagues apart along the northern and southern road.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency may depend upon me.ГўВҖВқ

The Count made a gesture of satisfaction, descended the terrace steps,
and sprang into his carriage, which was whirled along swiftly to the
bankerГўВҖВҷs house.

Danglars was engaged at that moment, presiding over a railroad
committee. But the meeting was nearly concluded when the name of his
visitor was announced. As the countГўВҖВҷs title sounded on his ear he rose,
and addressing his colleagues, who were members of one or the other
Chamber, he said:

ГўВҖВңGentlemen, pardon me for leaving you so abruptly; but a most
ridiculous circumstance has occurred, which is this,ГўВҖВ”Thomson & French,
the Roman bankers, have sent to me a certain person calling himself the
Count of Monte Cristo, and have given him an unlimited credit with me.
I confess this is the drollest thing I have ever met with in the course
of my extensive foreign transactions, and you may readily suppose it
has greatly roused my curiosity. I took the trouble this morning to
call on the pretended countГўВҖВ”if he were a real count he wouldnГўВҖВҷt be so
rich. But, would you believe it, ГўВҖВҳHe was not receiving.ГўВҖВҷ So the master
of Monte Cristo gives himself airs befitting a great millionaire or a
capricious beauty. I made inquiries, and found that the house in the
Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es is his own property, and certainly it was very decently
kept up. But,ГўВҖВқ pursued Danglars with one of his sinister smiles, ГўВҖВңan
order for unlimited credit calls for something like caution on the part
of the banker to whom that order is given. I am very anxious to see
this man. I suspect a hoax is intended, but the instigators of it
little knew whom they had to deal with. ГўВҖВҳThey laugh best who laugh
last!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Having delivered himself of this pompous address, uttered with a degree
of energy that left the baron almost out of breath, he bowed to the
assembled party and withdrew to his drawing-room, whose sumptuous
furnishings of white and gold had caused a great sensation in the
ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin. It was to this apartment he had desired his guest to
be shown, with the purpose of overwhelming him at the sight of so much
luxury. He found the count standing before some copies of Albano and
Fattore that had been passed off to the banker as originals; but which,
mere copies as they were, seemed to feel their degradation in being
brought into juxtaposition with the gaudy colors that covered the
ceiling.

The count turned round as he heard the entrance of Danglars into the
room. With a slight inclination of the head, Danglars signed to the
count to be seated, pointing significantly to a gilded armchair,
covered with white satin embroidered with gold. The count sat down.

20335m



ГўВҖВңI have the honor, I presume, of addressing M. de Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

The count bowed.

ГўВҖВңAnd I of speaking to Baron Danglars, chevalier of the Legion of Honor,
and member of the Chamber of Deputies?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo repeated all the titles he had read on the baronГўВҖВҷs card.

Danglars felt the irony and compressed his lips.

ГўВҖВңYou will, I trust, excuse me, monsieur, for not calling you by your
title when I first addressed you,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңbut you are aware that we
are living under a popular form of government, and that I am myself a
representative of the liberties of the people.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much so,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat while you call yourself baron
you are not willing to call anybody else count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon my word, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars with affected carelessness, ГўВҖВңI
attach no sort of value to such empty distinctions; but the fact is, I
was made baron, and also chevalier of the Legion of Honor, in return
for services rendered, butГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you have discarded your titles after the example set you by
Messrs. de Montmorency and Lafayette? That was a noble example to
follow, monsieur.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, ГўВҖВңnot entirely so; with the servants,ГўВҖВ”you
understand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI see; to your domestics you are ГўВҖВҳmy lord,ГўВҖВҷ the journalists style you
ГўВҖВҳmonsieur,ГўВҖВҷ while your constituents call you ГўВҖВҳcitizen.ГўВҖВҷ These are
distinctions very suitable under a constitutional government. I
understand perfectly.ГўВҖВқ

Again Danglars bit his lips; he saw that he was no match for Monte
Cristo in an argument of this sort, and he therefore hastened to turn
to subjects more congenial.

ГўВҖВңPermit me to inform you, Count,ГўВҖВқ said he, bowing, ГўВҖВңthat I have
received a letter of advice from Thomson & French, of Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am glad to hear it, baron,ГўВҖВ”for I must claim the privilege of
addressing you after the manner of your servants. I have acquired the
bad habit of calling persons by their titles from living in a country
where barons are still barons by right of birth. But as regards the
letter of advice, I am charmed to find that it has reached you; that
will spare me the troublesome and disagreeable task of coming to you
for money myself. You have received a regular letter of advice?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңbut I confess I didnГўВҖВҷt quite comprehend its
meaning.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd for that reason I did myself the honor of calling upon you, in
order to beg for an explanation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on, monsieur. Here I am, ready to give you any explanation you
desire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңin the letterГўВҖВ”I believe I have it about meГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”here
he felt in his breast-pocketГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyes, here it is. Well, this letter gives
the Count of Monte Cristo unlimited credit on our house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, baron, what is there difficult to understand about that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMerely the term _unlimited_ГўВҖВ”nothing else, certainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs not that word known in France? The people who wrote are
Anglo-Germans, you know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, as for the composition of the letter, there is nothing to be said;
but as regards the competency of the document, I certainly have
doubts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible?ГўВҖВқ asked the count, assuming all air and tone of the
utmost simplicity and candor. ГўВҖВңIs it possible that Thomson & French are
not looked upon as safe and solvent bankers? Pray tell me what you
think, baron, for I feel uneasy, I can assure you, having some
considerable property in their hands.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThomson & French are perfectly solvent,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, with an
almost mocking smile; ГўВҖВңbut the word _unlimited_, in financial affairs,
is so extremely vague.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs, in fact, unlimited,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңPrecisely what I was about to say,ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars. ГўВҖВңNow what is vague
is doubtful; and it was a wise man who said, ГўВҖВҳwhen in doubt, keep
out.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMeaning to say,ГўВҖВқ rejoined Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat however Thomson & French
may be inclined to commit acts of imprudence and folly, the Baron
Danglars is not disposed to follow their example.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPlainly enough; Messrs. Thomson & French set no bounds to their
engagements while those of M. Danglars have their limits; he is a wise
man, according to his own showing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied the banker, drawing himself up with a haughty air,
ГўВҖВңthe extent of my resources has never yet been questioned.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt seems, then, reserved for me,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo coldly, ГўВҖВңto be the
first to do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy what right, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy right of the objections you have raised, and the explanations you
have demanded, which certainly must have some motive.ГўВҖВқ

Once more Danglars bit his lips. It was the second time he had been
worsted, and this time on his own ground. His forced politeness sat
awkwardly upon him, and approached almost to impertinence. Monte Cristo
on the contrary, preserved a graceful suavity of demeanor, aided by a
certain degree of simplicity he could assume at pleasure, and thus
possessed the advantage.

ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ resumed Danglars, after a brief silence, ГўВҖВңI will endeavor
to make myself understood, by requesting you to inform me for what sum
you propose to draw upon me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, truly,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, determined not to lose an inch of
the ground he had gained, ГўВҖВңmy reason for desiring an ГўВҖВҳunlimitedГўВҖВҷ credit
was precisely because I did not know how much money I might need.ГўВҖВқ

The banker thought the time had come for him to take the upper hand. So
throwing himself back in his armchair, he said, with an arrogant and
purse-proud air:

ГўВҖВңLet me beg of you not to hesitate in naming your wishes; you will then
be convinced that the resources of the house of Danglars, however
limited, are still equal to meeting the largest demands; and were you
even to require a millionГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI beg your pardon,ГўВҖВқ interposed Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңI said a million,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, with the confidence of ignorance.

ГўВҖВңBut could I do with a million?ГўВҖВқ retorted the count. ГўВҖВңMy dear sir, if a
trifle like that could suffice me, I should never have given myself the
trouble of opening an account. A million? Excuse my smiling when you
speak of a sum I am in the habit of carrying in my pocket-book or
dressing-case.ГўВҖВқ

And with these words Monte Cristo took from his pocket a small case
containing his visiting-cards, and drew forth two orders on the
treasury for 500,000 francs each, payable at sight to the bearer. A man
like Danglars was wholly inaccessible to any gentler method of
correction. The effect of the present revelation was stunning; he
trembled and was on the verge of apoplexy. The pupils of his eyes, as
he gazed at Monte Cristo dilated horribly.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңconfess honestly that you have not
perfect confidence in Thomson & French. I understand, and foreseeing
that such might be the case, I took, in spite of my ignorance of
affairs, certain precautions. See, here are two similar letters to that
you have yourself received; one from the house of Arstein & Eskeles of
Vienna, to Baron Rothschild, the other drawn by Baring of London, upon
M. Lafitte. Now, sir, you have but to say the word, and I will spare
you all uneasiness by presenting my letter of credit to one or other of
these two firms.ГўВҖВқ

The blow had struck home, and Danglars was entirely vanquished; with a
trembling hand he took the two letters from the count, who held them
carelessly between finger and thumb, and proceeded to scrutinize the
signatures, with a minuteness that the count might have regarded as
insulting, had it not suited his present purpose to mislead the banker.

ГўВҖВңOh, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, after he had convinced himself of the
authenticity of the documents he held, and rising as if to salute the
power of gold personified in the man before him,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңthree letters of
unlimited credit! I can be no longer mistrustful, but you must pardon
me, my dear count, for confessing to some degree of astonishment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay,ГўВҖВқ answered Monte Cristo, with the most gentlemanly air, ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷtis not
for such trifling sums as these that your banking house is to be
incommoded. Then, you can let me have some money, can you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhatever you say, my dear count; I am at your orders.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңsince we mutually understand each
otherГўВҖВ”for such I presume is the case?ГўВҖВқ Danglars bowed assentingly. ГўВҖВңYou
are quite sure that not a lurking doubt or suspicion lingers in your
mind?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Danglars, ГўВҖВңI never for an instant
entertained such a feeling towards you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, you merely wished to be convinced, nothing more; but now that we
have come to so clear an understanding, and that all distrust and
suspicion are laid at rest, we may as well fix a sum as the probable
expenditure of the first year, suppose we say six millions toГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSix millions!ГўВҖВқ gasped DanglarsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңso be it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, if I should require more,ГўВҖВқ continued Monte Cristo in a careless
manner, ГўВҖВңwhy, of course, I should draw upon you; but my present
intention is not to remain in France more than a year, and during that
period I scarcely think I shall exceed the sum I mentioned. However, we
shall see. Be kind enough, then, to send me 500,000 francs tomorrow. I
shall be at home till midday, or if not, I will leave a receipt with my
steward.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe money you desire shall be at your house by ten oГўВҖВҷclock tomorrow
morning, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars. ГўВҖВңHow would you like to have
it? in gold, silver, or notes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHalf in gold, and the other half in bank-notes, if you please,ГўВҖВқ said
the count, rising from his seat.

ГўВҖВңI must confess to you, count,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat I have hitherto
imagined myself acquainted with the degree of all the great fortunes of
Europe, and still wealth such as yours has been wholly unknown to me.
May I presume to ask whether you have long possessed it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt has been in the family a very long while,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo,
ГўВҖВңa sort of treasure expressly forbidden to be touched for a certain
period of years, during which the accumulated interest has doubled the
capital. The period appointed by the testator for the disposal of these
riches occurred only a short time ago, and they have only been employed
by me within the last few years. Your ignorance on the subject,
therefore, is easily accounted for. However, you will be better
informed as to me and my possessions ere long.ГўВҖВқ

And the count, while pronouncing these latter words, accompanied them
with one of those ghastly smiles that used to strike terror into poor
Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.

ГўВҖВңWith your tastes, and means of gratifying them,ГўВҖВқ continued Danglars,
ГўВҖВңyou will exhibit a splendor that must effectually put us poor
miserable millionaires quite in the shade. If I mistake not you are an
admirer of paintings, at least I judged so from the attention you
appeared to be bestowing on mine when I entered the room. If you will
permit me, I shall be happy to show you my picture gallery, composed
entirely of works by the ancient mastersГўВҖВ”warranted as such. Not a
modern picture among them. I cannot endure the modern school of
painting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are perfectly right in objecting to them, for this one great
faultГўВҖВ”that they have not yet had time to become old.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOr will you allow me to show you several fine statues by Thorwaldsen,
Bartoloni, and Canova?ГўВҖВ”all foreign artists, for, as you may perceive, I
think but very indifferently of our French sculptors.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have a right to be unjust to them, monsieur; they are your
compatriots.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut all this may come later, when we shall be better known to each
other. For the present, I will confine myself (if perfectly agreeable
to you) to introducing you to the Baroness DanglarsГўВҖВ”excuse my
impatience, my dear count, but a client like you is almost like a
member of the family.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo bowed, in sign that he accepted the proffered honor;
Danglars rang and was answered by a servant in a showy livery.

ГўВҖВңIs the baroness at home?ГўВҖВқ inquired Danglars.

ГўВҖВңYes, my lord,ГўВҖВқ answered the man.

ГўВҖВңAnd alone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my lord, madame has visitors.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you any objection to meet any persons who may be with madame, or
do you desire to preserve a strict _incognito_?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, indeed,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo with a smile, ГўВҖВңI do not arrogate to
myself the right of so doing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who is with madame?ГўВҖВ”M. Debray?ГўВҖВқ inquired Danglars, with an air of
indulgence and good-nature that made Monte Cristo smile, acquainted as
he was with the secrets of the bankerГўВҖВҷs domestic life.

ГўВҖВңYes, my lord,ГўВҖВқ replied the servant, ГўВҖВңM. Debray is with madame.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars nodded his head; then, turning to Monte Cristo, said, ГўВҖВңM.
Lucien Debray is an old friend of ours, and private secretary to the
Minister of the Interior. As for my wife, I must tell you, she lowered
herself by marrying me, for she belongs to one of the most ancient
families in France. Her maiden name was De ServiГғВЁres, and her first
husband was Colonel the Marquis of Nargonne.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have not the honor of knowing Madame Danglars; but I have already
met M. Lucien Debray.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңand where was that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt the house of M. de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! you are acquainted with the young viscount, are you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe were together a good deal during the Carnival at Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, true,ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars. ГўВҖВңLet me see; have I not heard talk of
some strange adventure with bandits or thieves hid in ruins, and of his
having had a miraculous escape? I forget how, but I know he used to
amuse my wife and daughter by telling them about it after his return
from Italy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHer ladyship is waiting to receive you, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said the servant,
who had gone to inquire the pleasure of his mistress.

ГўВҖВңWith your permission,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, bowing, ГўВҖВңI will precede you, to
show you the way.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy all means,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI follow you.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 47. The Dappled Grays

The baron, followed by the count, traversed a long series of
apartments, in which the prevailing characteristics were heavy
magnificence and the gaudiness of ostentatious wealth, until he reached
the boudoir of Madame DanglarsГўВҖВ”a small octagonal-shaped room, hung with
pink satin, covered with white Indian muslin. The chairs were of
ancient workmanship and materials; over the doors were painted sketches
of shepherds and shepherdesses, after the style and manner of Boucher;
and at each side pretty medallions in crayons, harmonizing well with
the furnishings of this charming apartment, the only one throughout the
great mansion in which any distinctive taste prevailed. The truth was,
it had been entirely overlooked in the plan arranged and followed out
by M. Danglars and his architect, who had been selected to aid the
baron in the great work of improvement solely because he was the most
fashionable and celebrated decorator of the day. The decorations of the
boudoir had then been left entirely to Madame Danglars and Lucien
Debray. M. Danglars, however, while possessing a great admiration for
the antique, as it was understood during the time of the Directory,
entertained the most sovereign contempt for the simple elegance of his
wifeГўВҖВҷs favorite sitting-room, where, by the way, he was never permitted
to intrude, unless, indeed, he excused his own appearance by ushering
in some more agreeable visitor than himself; and even then he had
rather the air and manner of a person who was himself introduced, than
that of being the presenter of another, his reception being cordial or
frigid, in proportion as the person who accompanied him chanced to
please or displease the baroness.

Madame Danglars (who, although past the first bloom of youth, was still
strikingly handsome) was now seated at the piano, a most elaborate
piece of cabinet and inlaid work, while Lucien Debray, standing before
a small work-table, was turning over the pages of an album.

Lucien had found time, preparatory to the countГўВҖВҷs arrival, to relate
many particulars respecting him to Madame Danglars. It will be
remembered that Monte Cristo had made a lively impression on the minds
of all the party assembled at the breakfast given by Albert de Morcerf;
and although Debray was not in the habit of yielding to such feelings,
he had never been able to shake off the powerful influence excited in
his mind by the impressive look and manner of the count, consequently
the description given by Lucien to the baroness bore the highly-colored
tinge of his own heated imagination. Already excited by the wonderful
stories related of the count by de Morcerf, it is no wonder that Madame
Danglars eagerly listened to, and fully credited, all the additional
circumstances detailed by Debray. This posing at the piano and over the
album was only a little ruse adopted by way of precaution. A most
gracious welcome and unusual smile were bestowed on M. Danglars; the
count, in return for his gentlemanly bow, received a formal though
graceful courtesy, while Lucien exchanged with the count a sort of
distant recognition, and with Danglars a free and easy nod.

ГўВҖВңBaroness,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңgive me leave to present to you the Count
of Monte Cristo, who has been most warmly recommended to me by my
correspondents at Rome. I need but mention one fact to make all the
ladies in Paris court his notice, and that is, that he has come to take
up his abode in Paris for a year, during which brief period he proposes
to spend six millions of money. That means balls, dinners, and lawn
parties without end, in all of which I trust the count will remember
us, as he may depend upon it we shall him, in our own humble
entertainments.ГўВҖВқ

In spite of the gross flattery and coarseness of this address, Madame
Danglars could not forbear gazing with considerable interest on a man
capable of expending six millions in twelve months, and who had
selected Paris for the scene of his princely extravagance.

ГўВҖВңAnd when did you arrive here?ГўВҖВқ inquired she.

ГўВҖВңYesterday morning, madame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңComing, as usual, I presume, from the extreme end of the globe? Pardon
meГўВҖВ”at least, such I have heard is your custom.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, madame. This time I have merely come from Cadiz.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have selected a most unfavorable moment for your first visit.
Paris is a horrible place in summer. Balls, parties, and _fГғВӘtes_ are
over; the Italian opera is in London; the French opera everywhere
except in Paris. As for the ThГғВ©atre FranГғВ§ais, you know, of course, that
it is nowhere. The only amusements left us are the indifferent races at
the Champ-de-Mars and Satory. Do you propose entering any horses at
either of these races, count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall do whatever they do at Paris, madame, if I have the good
fortune to find someone who will initiate me into the prevalent ideas
of amusement.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you fond of horses, count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have passed a considerable part of my life in the East, madame, and
you are doubtless aware that the Orientals value only two thingsГўВҖВ”the
fine breeding of their horses and the beauty of their women.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, count,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, ГўВҖВңit would have been somewhat more
gallant to have placed the ladies first.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou see, madame, how rightly I spoke when I said I required a
preceptor to guide me in all my sayings and doings here.ГўВҖВқ

At this instant the favorite attendant of Madame Danglars entered the
boudoir; approaching her mistress, she spoke some words in an
undertone. Madame Danglars turned very pale, then exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңI cannot believe it; the thing is impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI assure you, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied the woman, ГўВҖВңit is as I have said.ГўВҖВқ

Turning impatiently towards her husband, Madame Danglars demanded, ГўВҖВңIs
this true?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs what true, madame?ГўВҖВқ inquired Danglars, visibly agitated.

ГўВҖВңWhat my maid tells me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what does she tell you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat when my coachman was about to harness the horses to my carriage,
he discovered that they had been removed from the stables without his
knowledge. I desire to know what is the meaning of this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe kind enough, madame, to listen to me,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes; I will listen, monsieur, for I am most curious to hear what
explanation you will give. These two gentlemen shall decide between us;
but, first, I will state the case to them. Gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ continued the
baroness, ГўВҖВңamong the ten horses in the stables of Baron Danglars, are
two that belong exclusively to meГўВҖВ”a pair of the handsomest and most
spirited creatures to be found in Paris. But to you, at least, M.
Debray, I need not give a further description, because to you my
beautiful pair of dappled grays were well known. Well, I had promised
Madame de Villefort the loan of my carriage to drive tomorrow to the
Bois; but when my coachman goes to fetch the grays from the stables
they are goneГўВҖВ”positively gone. No doubt M. Danglars has sacrificed them
to the selfish consideration of gaining some thousands of paltry
francs. Oh, what a detestable crew they are, these mercenary
speculators!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, ГўВҖВңthe horses were not sufficiently quiet for
you; they were scarcely four years old, and they made me extremely
uneasy on your account.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNonsense,ГўВҖВқ retorted the baroness; ГўВҖВңyou could not have entertained any
alarm on the subject, because you are perfectly well aware that I have
had for a month in my service the very best coachman in Paris. But,
perhaps, you have disposed of the coachman as well as the horses?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear love, pray do not say any more about them, and I promise you
another pair exactly like them in appearance, only more quiet and
steady.ГўВҖВқ

The baroness shrugged her shoulders with an air of ineffable contempt,
while her husband, affecting not to observe this unconjugal gesture,
turned towards Monte Cristo and said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңUpon my word, count, I am quite
sorry not to have met you sooner. You are setting up an establishment,
of course?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, yes,ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

ГўВҖВңI should have liked to have made you the offer of these horses. I have
almost given them away, as it is; but, as I before said, I was anxious
to get rid of them upon any terms. They were only fit for a young man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am much obliged by your kind intentions towards me,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut this morning I purchased a very excellent pair of
carriage-horses, and I do not think they were dear. There they are.
Come, M. Debray, you are a connoisseur, I believe, let me have your
opinion upon them.ГўВҖВқ

As Debray walked towards the window, Danglars approached his wife.

ГўВҖВңI could not tell you before others,ГўВҖВқ said he in a low tone, ГўВҖВңthe
reason of my parting with the horses; but a most enormous price was
offered me this morning for them. Some madman or fool, bent upon
ruining himself as fast as he can, actually sent his steward to me to
purchase them at any cost; and the fact is, I have gained 16,000 francs
by the sale of them. Come, donГўВҖВҷt look so angry, and you shall have
4,000 francs of the money to do what you like with, and EugГғВ©nie shall
have 2,000. There, what do you think now of the affair? WasnГўВҖВҷt I right
to part with the horses?ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars surveyed her husband with a look of withering contempt.

ГўВҖВңGreat heavens?ГўВҖВқ suddenly exclaimed Debray.

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ asked the baroness.

ГўВҖВңI cannot be mistaken; there are your horses! The very animals we were
speaking of, harnessed to the countГўВҖВҷs carriage!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dappled grays?ГўВҖВқ demanded the baroness, springing to the window.
ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis indeed they!ГўВҖВқ said she.

Danglars looked absolutely stupefied.

ГўВҖВңHow very singular,ГўВҖВқ cried Monte Cristo with well-feigned astonishment.

ГўВҖВңI cannot believe it,ГўВҖВқ murmured the banker. Madame Danglars whispered a
few words in the ear of Debray, who approached Monte Cristo, saying,
ГўВҖВңThe baroness wishes to know what you paid her husband for the horses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI scarcely know,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңit was a little surprise
prepared for me by my steward, and cost meГўВҖВ”well, somewhere about 30,000
francs.ГўВҖВқ

Debray conveyed the countГўВҖВҷs reply to the baroness. Poor Danglars looked
so crest-fallen and discomfited that Monte Cristo assumed a pitying air
towards him.

ГўВҖВңSee,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңhow very ungrateful women are. Your kind
attention, in providing for the safety of the baroness by disposing of
the horses, does not seem to have made the least impression on her. But
so it is; a woman will often, from mere wilfulness, prefer that which
is dangerous to that which is safe. Therefore, in my opinion, my dear
baron, the best and easiest way is to leave them to their fancies, and
allow them to act as they please, and then, if any mischief follows,
why, at least, they have no one to blame but themselves.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars made no reply; he was occupied in anticipations of the coming
scene between himself and the baroness, whose frowning brow, like that
of Olympic Jove, predicted a storm. Debray, who perceived the gathering
clouds, and felt no desire to witness the explosion of Madame DanglarsГўВҖВҷ
rage, suddenly recollected an appointment, which compelled him to take
his leave; while Monte Cristo, unwilling by prolonging his stay to
destroy the advantages he hoped to obtain, made a farewell bow and
departed, leaving Danglars to endure the angry reproaches of his wife.

20347m



ГўВҖВңExcellent,ГўВҖВқ murmured Monte Cristo to himself, as he came away. ГўВҖВңAll
has gone according to my wishes. The domestic peace of this family is
henceforth in my hands. Now, then, to play another master-stroke, by
which I shall gain the heart of both husband and wifeГўВҖВ”delightful!
Still,ГўВҖВқ added he, ГўВҖВңamid all this, I have not yet been presented to
Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie Danglars, whose acquaintance I should have been
glad to make. But,ГўВҖВқ he went on with his peculiar smile, ГўВҖВңI am here in
Paris, and have plenty of time before meГўВҖВ”by and by will do for that.ГўВҖВқ

With these reflections he entered his carriage and returned home. Two
hours afterwards, Madame Danglars received a most flattering epistle
from the count, in which he entreated her to receive back her favorite
ГўВҖВңdappled grays,ГўВҖВқ protesting that he could not endure the idea of making
his entry into the Parisian world of fashion with the knowledge that
his splendid equipage had been obtained at the price of a lovely
womanГўВҖВҷs regrets. The horses were sent back wearing the same harness she
had seen on them in the morning; only, by the countГўВҖВҷs orders, in the
centre of each rosette that adorned either side of their heads, had
been fastened a large diamond.

To Danglars Monte Cristo also wrote, requesting him to excuse the
whimsical gift of a capricious millionaire, and to beg the baroness to
pardon the Eastern fashion adopted in the return of the horses.

During the evening, Monte Cristo quitted Paris for Auteuil, accompanied
by Ali. The following day, about three oГўВҖВҷclock, a single blow struck on
the gong summoned Ali to the presence of the count.

ГўВҖВңAli,ГўВҖВқ observed his master, as the Nubian entered the chamber, ГўВҖВңyou
have frequently explained to me how more than commonly skilful you are
in throwing the lasso, have you not?ГўВҖВқ

Ali drew himself up proudly, and then returned a sign in the
affirmative.

ГўВҖВңI thought I did not mistake. With your lasso you could stop an ox?ГўВҖВқ

Again Ali repeated his affirmative gesture.

ГўВҖВңOr a tiger?ГўВҖВқ

Ali bowed his head in token of assent.

ГўВҖВңA lion even?ГўВҖВқ

Ali sprung forwards, imitating the action of one throwing the lasso,
then of a strangled lion.

ГўВҖВңI understand,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңyou wish to tell me you have hunted
the lion?ГўВҖВқ

Ali smiled with triumphant pride as he signified that he had indeed
both chased and captured many lions.

ГўВҖВңBut do you believe you could arrest the progress of two horses rushing
forwards with ungovernable fury?ГўВҖВқ

The Nubian smiled.

ГўВҖВңIt is well,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңThen listen to me. Ere long a
carriage will dash past here, drawn by the pair of dappled gray horses
you saw me with yesterday; now, at the risk of your own life, you must
manage to stop those horses before my door.ГўВҖВқ

Ali descended to the street, and marked a straight line on the pavement
immediately at the entrance of the house, and then pointed out the line
he had traced to the count, who was watching him. The count patted him
gently on the shoulder, his usual mode of praising Ali, who, pleased
and gratified with the commission assigned him, walked calmly towards a
projecting stone forming the angle of the street and house, and,
seating himself thereon, began to smoke his chibouque, while Monte
Cristo re-entered his dwelling, perfectly assured of the success of his
plan.

Still, as five oГўВҖВҷclock approached, and the carriage was momentarily
expected by the count, the indication of more than common impatience
and uneasiness might be observed in his manner. He stationed himself in
a room commanding a view of the street, pacing the chamber with
restless steps, stopping merely to listen from time to time for the
sound of approaching wheels, then to cast an anxious glance on Ali; but
the regularity with which the Nubian puffed forth the smoke of his
chibouque proved that he at least was wholly absorbed in the enjoyment
of his favorite occupation.

Suddenly a distant sound of rapidly advancing wheels was heard, and
almost immediately a carriage appeared, drawn by a pair of wild,
ungovernable horses, while the terrified coachman strove in vain to
restrain their furious speed.

In the vehicle was a young woman and a child of about seven or eight
clasped in each otherГўВҖВҷs arms. Terror seemed to have deprived them even
of the power of uttering a cry. The carriage creaked and rattled as it
flew over the rough stones, and the slightest obstacle under the wheels
would have caused disaster; but it kept on in the middle of the road,
and those who saw it pass uttered cries of terror.

Ali suddenly cast aside his chibouque, drew the lasso from his pocket,
threw it so skilfully as to catch the forelegs of the near horse in its
triple fold, and suffered himself to be dragged on for a few steps by
the violence of the shock, then the animal fell over on the pole, which
snapped, and therefore prevented the other horse from pursuing its way.
Gladly availing himself of this opportunity, the coachman leaped from
his box; but Ali had promptly seized the nostrils of the second horse,
and held them in his iron grasp, till the beast, snorting with pain,
sunk beside his companion.

All this was achieved in much less time than is occupied in the
recital. The brief space had, however, been sufficient for a man,
followed by a number of servants, to rush from the house before which
the accident had occurred, and, as the coachman opened the door of the
carriage, to take from it a lady who was convulsively grasping the
cushions with one hand, while with the other she pressed to her bosom
the young boy, who had lost consciousness. Monte Cristo carried them
both to the salon, and deposited them on a sofa.

ГўВҖВңCompose yourself, madame,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңall danger is over.ГўВҖВқ The woman
looked up at these words, and, with a glance far more expressive than
any entreaties could have been, pointed to her child, who still
continued insensible. ГўВҖВңI understand the nature of your alarms, madame,ГўВҖВқ
said the count, carefully examining the child, ГўВҖВңbut I assure you there
is not the slightest occasion for uneasiness; your little charge has
not received the least injury; his insensibility is merely the effects
of terror, and will soon pass.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you quite sure you do not say so to tranquillize my fears? See how
deadly pale he is! My child, my darling Edward; speak to your
motherГўВҖВ”open your dear eyes and look on me once again! Oh, sir, in pity
send for a physician; my whole fortune shall not be thought too much
for the recovery of my boy.ГўВҖВқ

With a calm smile and a gentle wave of the hand, Monte Cristo signed to
the distracted mother to lay aside her apprehensions; then, opening a
casket that stood near, he drew forth a phial of Bohemian glass
incrusted with gold, containing a liquid of the color of blood, of
which he let fall a single drop on the childГўВҖВҷs lips. Scarcely had it
reached them, ere the boy, though still pale as marble, opened his
eyes, and eagerly gazed around him. At this, the delight of the mother
was almost frantic.

ГўВҖВңWhere am I?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed she; ГўВҖВңand to whom am I indebted for so happy a
termination to my late dreadful alarm?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ answered the count, ГўВҖВңyou are under the roof of one who
esteems himself most fortunate in having been able to save you from a
further continuance of your sufferings.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy wretched curiosity has brought all this about,ГўВҖВқ pursued the lady.
ГўВҖВңAll Paris rung with the praises of Madame DanglarsГўВҖВҷ beautiful horses,
and I had the folly to desire to know whether they really merited the
high praise given to them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the count with well-feigned astonishment,
ГўВҖВңthat these horses belong to the baroness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey do, indeed. May I inquire if you are acquainted with Madame
Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

20351m



ГўВҖВңI have that honor; and my happiness at your escape from the danger
that threatened you is redoubled by the consciousness that I have been
the unwilling and the unintentional cause of all the peril you have
incurred. I yesterday purchased these horses of the baron; but as the
baroness evidently regretted parting with them, I ventured to send them
back to her, with a request that she would gratify me by accepting them
from my hands.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are, then, doubtless, the Count of Monte Cristo, of whom Hermine
has talked to me so much?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have rightly guessed, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

ГўВҖВңAnd I am Madame HГғВ©loГғВҜse de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

The count bowed with the air of a person who hears a name for the first
time.

ГўВҖВңHow grateful will M. de Villefort be for all your goodness; how
thankfully will he acknowledge that to you alone he owes the existence
of his wife and child! Most certainly, but for the prompt assistance of
your intrepid servant, this dear child and myself must both have
perished.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, I still shudder at the fearful danger you were placed in.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI trust you will allow me to recompense worthily the devotion of your
man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI beseech you, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңnot to spoil Ali, either
by too great praise or rewards. I cannot allow him to acquire the habit
of expecting to be recompensed for every trifling service he may
render. Ali is my slave, and in saving your life he was but discharging
his duty to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay,ГўВҖВқ interposed Madame de Villefort, on whom the authoritative style
adopted by the count made a deep impression, ГўВҖВңnay, but consider that to
preserve my life he has risked his own.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis life, madame, belongs not to him; it is mine, in return for my
having myself saved him from death.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort made no further reply; her mind was utterly
absorbed in the contemplation of the person who, from the first instant
she saw him, had made so powerful an impression on her.

During the evident preoccupation of Madame de Villefort, Monte Cristo
scrutinized the features and appearance of the boy she kept folded in
her arms, lavishing on him the most tender endearments. The child was
small for his age, and unnaturally pale. A mass of straight black hair,
defying all attempts to train or curl it, fell over his projecting
forehead, and hung down to his shoulders, giving increased vivacity to
eyes already sparkling with a youthful love of mischief and fondness
for every forbidden enjoyment. His mouth was large, and the lips, which
had not yet regained their color, were particularly thin; in fact, the
deep and crafty look, giving a predominant expression to the childГўВҖВҷs
face, belonged rather to a boy of twelve or fourteen than to one so
young. His first movement was to free himself by a violent push from
the encircling arms of his mother, and to rush forward to the casket
from whence the count had taken the phial of elixir; then, without
asking permission of anyone, he proceeded, in all the wilfulness of a
spoiled child unaccustomed to restrain either whims or caprices, to
pull the corks out of all the bottles.

ГўВҖВңTouch nothing, my little friend,ГўВҖВқ cried the count eagerly; ГўВҖВңsome of
those liquids are not only dangerous to taste, but even to inhale.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort became very pale, and, seizing her sonГўВҖВҷs arm, drew
him anxiously toward her; but, once satisfied of his safety, she also
cast a brief but expressive glance on the casket, which was not lost
upon the count. At this moment Ali entered. At sight of him Madame de
Villefort uttered an expression of pleasure, and, holding the child
still closer towards her, she said:

ГўВҖВңEdward, dearest, do you see that good man? He has shown very great
courage and resolution, for he exposed his own life to stop the horses
that were running away with us, and would certainly have dashed the
carriage to pieces. Thank him, then, my child, in your very best
manner; for, had he not come to our aid, neither you nor I would have
been alive to speak our thanks.ГўВҖВқ

The child stuck out his lips and turned away his head in a disdainful
manner, saying, ГўВҖВңHeГўВҖВҷs too ugly.ГўВҖВқ

20353m



The count smiled as if the child bade fair to realize his hopes, while
Madame de Villefort reprimanded her son with a gentleness and
moderation very far from conveying the least idea of a fault having
been committed.

ГўВҖВңThis lady,ГўВҖВқ said the Count, speaking to Ali in the Arabic language,
ГўВҖВңis desirous that her son should thank you for saving both their lives;
but the boy refuses, saying you are too ugly.ГўВҖВқ

Ali turned his intelligent countenance towards the boy, on whom he
gazed without any apparent emotion; but the spasmodic working of the
nostrils showed to the practiced eye of Monte Cristo that the Arab had
been wounded to the heart.

ГўВҖВңWill you permit me to inquire,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, as she arose
to take her leave, ГўВҖВңwhether you usually reside here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I do not,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңit is a small place I have
purchased quite lately. My place of abode is No. 30, Avenue des
Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es; but I see you have quite recovered from your fright,
and are, no doubt, desirous of returning home. Anticipating your
wishes, I have desired the same horses you came with to be put to one
of my carriages, and Ali, he whom you think so very ugly,ГўВҖВқ continued
he, addressing the boy with a smiling air, ГўВҖВңwill have the honor of
driving you home, while your coachman remains here to attend to the
necessary repairs of your calash. As soon as that important business is
concluded, I will have a pair of my own horses harnessed to convey it
direct to Madame Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI dare not return with those dreadful horses,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de
Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYou will see,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat they will be as different
as possible in the hands of Ali. With him they will be gentle and
docile as lambs.ГўВҖВқ

Ali had, indeed, given proof of this; for, approaching the animals, who
had been got upon their legs with considerable difficulty, he rubbed
their foreheads and nostrils with a sponge soaked in aromatic vinegar,
and wiped off the sweat and foam that covered their mouths. Then,
commencing a loud whistling noise, he rubbed them well all over their
bodies for several minutes; then, undisturbed by the noisy crowd
collected round the broken carriage, Ali quietly harnessed the pacified
animals to the countГўВҖВҷs chariot, took the reins in his hands, and
mounted the box, when to the utter astonishment of those who had
witnessed the ungovernable spirit and maddened speed of the same
horses, he was actually compelled to apply his whip in no very gentle
manner before he could induce them to start; and even then all that
could be obtained from the celebrated ГўВҖВңdappled grays,ГўВҖВқ now changed into
a couple of dull, sluggish, stupid brutes, was a slow, pottering pace,
kept up with so much difficulty that Madame de Villefort was more than
two hours returning to her residence in the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©.

20355m



Scarcely had the first congratulations upon her marvellous escape been
gone through when she wrote the following letter to Madame Danglars:ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңDear Hermine,ГўВҖВ”I have just had a wonderful escape from the most
imminent danger, and I owe my safety to the very Count of Monte Cristo
we were talking about yesterday, but whom I little expected to see
today. I remember how unmercifully I laughed at what I considered your
eulogistic and exaggerated praises of him; but I have now ample cause
to admit that your enthusiastic description of this wonderful man fell
far short of his merits. Your horses got as far as Ranelagh, when they
darted forward like mad things, and galloped away at so fearful a rate,
that there seemed no other prospect for myself and my poor Edward but
that of being dashed to pieces against the first object that impeded
their progress, when a strange-looking man,ГўВҖВ”an Arab, a negro, or a
Nubian, at least a black of some nation or otherГўВҖВ”at a signal from the
count, whose domestic he is, suddenly seized and stopped the infuriated
animals, even at the risk of being trampled to death himself; and
certainly he must have had a most wonderful escape. The count then
hastened to us, and took us into his house, where he speedily recalled
my poor Edward to life. He sent us home in his own carriage. Yours will
be returned to you tomorrow. You will find your horses in bad
condition, from the results of this accident; they seem thoroughly
stupefied, as if sulky and vexed at having been conquered by man. The
count, however, has commissioned me to assure you that two or three
daysГўВҖВҷ rest, with plenty of barley for their sole food during that time,
will bring them back to as fine, that is as terrifying, a condition as
they were in yesterday.

20356m



Adieu! I cannot return you many thanks for the drive of yesterday; but,
after all, I ought not to blame you for the misconduct of your horses,
more especially as it procured me the pleasure of an introduction to
the Count of Monte Cristo,ГўВҖВ”and certainly that illustrious personage,
apart from the millions he is said to be so very anxious to dispose of,
seemed to me one of those curiously interesting problems I, for one,
delight in solving at any risk, even if it were to necessitate another
drive to the Bois behind your horses.

Edward endured the accident with miraculous courageГўВҖВ”he did not utter a
single cry, but fell lifeless into my arms; nor did a tear fall from
his eyes after it was over. I doubt not you will consider these praises
the result of blind maternal affection, but there is a soul of iron in
that delicate, fragile body. Valentine sends many affectionate
remembrances to your dear EugГғВ©nie. I embrace you with all my heart.

HГғВ©loГғВҜse de Villefort.

P.S.ГўВҖВ”Do pray contrive some means for me to meet the Count of Monte
Cristo at your house. I must and will see him again. I have just made
M. de Villefort promise to call on him, and I hope the visit will be
returned.

That night the adventure at Auteuil was talked of everywhere. Albert
related it to his mother; ChГғВўteau-Renaud recounted it at the Jockey
Club, and Debray detailed it at length in the salons of the minister;
even Beauchamp accorded twenty lines in his journal to the relation of
the countГўВҖВҷs courage and gallantry, thereby celebrating him as the
greatest hero of the day in the eyes of all the feminine members of the
aristocracy.

Vast was the crowd of visitors and inquiring friends who left their
names at the residence of Madame de Villefort, with the design of
renewing their visit at the right moment, of hearing from her lips all
the interesting circumstances of this most romantic adventure.

As for M. de Villefort, he fulfilled the predictions of HГғВ©loГғВҜse to the
letter,ГўВҖВ”donned his dress suit, drew on a pair of white gloves, ordered
the servants to attend the carriage dressed in their full livery, and
drove that same night to No. 30 in the Avenue des Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es.



VOLUME THREE

30009m



30011m




 Chapter 48. Ideology

If the Count of Monte Cristo had been for a long time familiar with the
ways of Parisian society, he would have appreciated better the
significance of the step which M. de Villefort had taken. Standing well
at court, whether the king regnant was of the older or younger branch,
whether the government was doctrinaire liberal, or conservative; looked
upon by all as a man of talent, since those who have never experienced
a political check are generally so regarded; hated by many, but warmly
supported by others, without being really liked by anybody, M. de
Villefort held a high position in the magistracy, and maintained his
eminence like a Harlay or a MolГғВ©. His drawing-room, under the
regenerating influence of a young wife and a daughter by his first
marriage, scarcely eighteen, was still one of the well-regulated Paris
salons where the worship of traditional customs and the observance of
rigid etiquette were carefully maintained. A freezing politeness, a
strict fidelity to government principles, a profound contempt for
theories and theorists, a deep-seated hatred of ideality,ГўВҖВ”these were
the elements of private and public life displayed by M. de Villefort.

30023m



M. de Villefort was not only a magistrate, he was almost a diplomatist.
His relations with the former court, of which he always spoke with
dignity and respect, made him respected by the new one, and he knew so
many things, that not only was he always carefully considered, but
sometimes consulted. Perhaps this would not have been so had it been
possible to get rid of M. de Villefort; but, like the feudal barons who
rebelled against their sovereign, he dwelt in an impregnable fortress.
This fortress was his post as kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, all the advantages of
which he exploited with marvellous skill, and which he would not have
resigned but to be made deputy, and thus to replace neutrality by
opposition.

Ordinarily M. de Villefort made and returned very few visits. His wife
visited for him, and this was the received thing in the world, where
the weighty and multifarious occupations of the magistrate were
accepted as an excuse for what was really only calculated pride, a
manifestation of professed superiorityГўВҖВ”in fact, the application of the
axiom, _Pretend to think well of yourself, and the world will think
well of you_, an axiom a hundred times more useful in society nowadays
than that of the Greeks, ГўВҖВңKnow thyself,ГўВҖВқ a knowledge for which, in our
days, we have substituted the less difficult and more advantageous
science of _knowing others_.

To his friends M. de Villefort was a powerful protector; to his
enemies, he was a silent, but bitter opponent; for those who were
neither the one nor the other, he was a statue of the law-made man. He
had a haughty bearing, a look either steady and impenetrable or
insolently piercing and inquisitorial. Four successive revolutions had
built and cemented the pedestal upon which his fortune was based.

M. de Villefort had the reputation of being the least curious and the
least wearisome man in France. He gave a ball every year, at which he
appeared for a quarter of an hour only,ГўВҖВ”that is to say, five-and-forty
minutes less than the king is visible at his balls. He was never seen
at the theatres, at concerts, or in any place of public resort.
Occasionally, but seldom, he played at whist, and then care was taken
to select partners worthy of himГўВҖВ”sometimes they were ambassadors,
sometimes archbishops, or sometimes a prince, or a president, or some
dowager duchess.

Such was the man whose carriage had just now stopped before the Count
of Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs door. The valet de chambre announced M. de Villefort
at the moment when the count, leaning over a large table, was tracing
on a map the route from St. Petersburg to China.

The procureur entered with the same grave and measured step he would
have employed in entering a court of justice. He was the same man, or
rather the development of the same man, whom we have heretofore seen as
assistant attorney at Marseilles. Nature, according to her way, had
made no deviation in the path he had marked out for himself. From being
slender he had now become meagre; once pale, he was now yellow; his
deep-set eyes were hollow, and the gold spectacles shielding his eyes
seemed to be an integral portion of his face. He dressed entirely in
black, with the exception of his white tie, and his funeral appearance
was only mitigated by the slight line of red ribbon which passed almost
imperceptibly through his button-hole, and appeared like a streak of
blood traced with a delicate brush.

Although master of himself, Monte Cristo, scrutinized with
irrepressible curiosity the magistrate whose salute he returned, and
who, distrustful by habit, and especially incredulous as to social
prodigies, was much more despised to look upon ГўВҖВңthe noble stranger,ГўВҖВқ as
Monte Cristo was already called, as an adventurer in search of new
fields, or an escaped criminal, rather than as a prince of the Holy
See, or a sultan of the _Thousand and One Nights_.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, in the squeaky tone assumed by magistrates in
their oratorical periods, and of which they cannot, or will not, divest
themselves in society, ГўВҖВңsir, the signal service which you yesterday
rendered to my wife and son has made it a duty for me to offer you my
thanks. I have come, therefore, to discharge this duty, and to express
to you my overwhelming gratitude.ГўВҖВқ

And as he said this, the ГўВҖВңeye severeГўВҖВқ of the magistrate had lost
nothing of its habitual arrogance. He spoke in a voice of the
procureur-general, with the rigid inflexibility of neck and shoulders
which caused his flatterers to say (as we have before observed) that he
was the living statue of the law.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, with a chilling air, ГўВҖВңI am very happy to
have been the means of preserving a son to his mother, for they say
that the sentiment of maternity is the most holy of all; and the good
fortune which occurred to me, monsieur, might have enabled you to
dispense with a duty which, in its discharge, confers an undoubtedly
great honor; for I am aware that M. de Villefort is not usually lavish
of the favor which he now bestows on me,ГўВҖВ”a favor which, however
estimable, is unequal to the satisfaction which I have in my own
consciousness.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort, astonished at this reply, which he by no means expected,
started like a soldier who feels the blow levelled at him over the
armor he wears, and a curl of his disdainful lip indicated that from
that moment he noted in the tablets of his brain that the Count of
Monte Cristo was by no means a highly bred gentleman.

He glanced around, in order to seize on something on which the
conversation might turn, and seemed to fall easily on a topic. He saw
the map which Monte Cristo had been examining when he entered, and
said:

ГўВҖВңYou seem geographically engaged, sir? It is a rich study for you, who,
as I learn, have seen as many lands as are delineated on this map.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңI have sought to make of the human
race, taken in the mass, what you practice every day on individualsГўВҖВ”a
physiological study. I have believed it was much easier to descend from
the whole to a part than to ascend from a part to the whole. It is an
algebraic axiom, which makes us proceed from a known to an unknown
quantity, and not from an unknown to a known; but sit down, sir, I beg
of you.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo pointed to a chair, which the procureur was obliged to
take the trouble to move forwards himself, while the count merely fell
back into his own, on which he had been kneeling when M. Villefort
entered. Thus the count was halfway turned towards his visitor, having
his back towards the window, his elbow resting on the geographical
chart which furnished the theme of conversation for the moment,ГўВҖВ”a
conversation which assumed, as in the case of the interviews with
Danglars and Morcerf, a turn analogous to the persons, if not to the
situation.

ГўВҖВңAh, you philosophize,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, after a momentГўВҖВҷs silence,
during which, like a wrestler who encounters a powerful opponent, he
took breath; ГўВҖВңwell, sir, really, if, like you, I had nothing else to
do, I should seek a more amusing occupation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, in truth, sir,ГўВҖВқ was Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs reply, ГўВҖВңman is but an ugly
caterpillar for him who studies him through a solar microscope; but you
said, I think, that I had nothing else to do. Now, really, let me ask,
sir, have you?ГўВҖВ”do you believe you have anything to do? or to speak in
plain terms, do you really think that what you do deserves being called
anything?ГўВҖВқ

VillefortГўВҖВҷs astonishment redoubled at this second thrust so forcibly
made by his strange adversary. It was a long time since the magistrate
had heard a paradox so strong, or rather, to say the truth more
exactly, it was the first time he had ever heard of it. The procureur
exerted himself to reply.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ he responded, ГўВҖВңyou are a stranger, and I believe you say
yourself that a portion of your life has been spent in Oriental
countries, so you are not aware how human justice, so expeditious in
barbarous countries, takes with us a prudent and well-studied course.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yesГўВҖВ”yes, I do, sir; it is the _pede claudo_ of the ancients. I
know all that, for it is with the justice of all countries especially
that I have occupied myselfГўВҖВ”it is with the criminal procedure of all
nations that I have compared natural justice, and I must say, sir, that
it is the law of primitive nations, that is, the law of retaliation,
that I have most frequently found to be according to the law of God.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf this law were adopted, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the procureur, ГўВҖВңit would greatly
simplify our legal codes, and in that case the magistrates would not
(as you just observed) have much to do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt may, perhaps, come to this in time,ГўВҖВқ observed Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңyou
know that human inventions march from the complex to the simple, and
simplicity is always perfection.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the meanwhile,ГўВҖВқ continued the magistrate, ГўВҖВңour codes are in full
force, with all their contradictory enactments derived from Gallic
customs, Roman laws, and Frank usages; the knowledge of all which, you
will agree, is not to be acquired without extended labor; it needs
tedious study to acquire this knowledge, and, when acquired, a strong
power of brain to retain it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI agree with you entirely, sir; but all that even you know with
respect to the French code, I know, not only in reference to that code,
but as regards the codes of all nations. The English, Turkish,
Japanese, Hindu laws, are as familiar to me as the French laws, and
thus I was right, when I said to you, that relatively (you know that
everything is relative, sir)ГўВҖВ”that relatively to what I have done, you
have very little to do; but that relatively to all I have learned, you
have yet a great deal to learn.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut with what motive have you learned all this?ГўВҖВқ inquired Villefort,
in astonishment.

Monte Cristo smiled.

ГўВҖВңReally, sir,ГўВҖВқ he observed, ГўВҖВңI see that in spite of the reputation
which you have acquired as a superior man, you look at everything from
the material and vulgar view of society, beginning with man, and ending
with manГўВҖВ”that is to say, in the most restricted, most narrow view which
it is possible for human understanding to embrace.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray, sir, explain yourself,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, more and more
astonished, ГўВҖВңI really doГўВҖВ”notГўВҖВ”understand youГўВҖВ”perfectly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI say, sir, that with the eyes fixed on the social organization of
nations, you see only the springs of the machine, and lose sight of the
sublime workman who makes them act; I say that you do not recognize
before you and around you any but those office-holders whose
commissions have been signed by a minister or king; and that the men
whom God has put above those office-holders, ministers, and kings, by
giving them a mission to follow out, instead of a post to fillГўВҖВ”I say
that they escape your narrow, limited field of observation. It is thus
that human weakness fails, from its debilitated and imperfect organs.
Tobias took the angel who restored him to light for an ordinary young
man. The nations took Attila, who was doomed to destroy them, for a
conqueror similar to other conquerors, and it was necessary for both to
reveal their missions, that they might be known and acknowledged; one
was compelled to say, ГўВҖВҳI am the angel of the LordГўВҖВҷ; and the other, ГўВҖВҳI
am the hammer of God,ГўВҖВҷ in order that the divine essence in both might
be revealed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, more and more amazed, and really supposing he
was speaking to a mystic or a madman, ГўВҖВңyou consider yourself as one of
those extraordinary beings whom you have mentioned?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd why not?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo coldly.

ГўВҖВңYour pardon, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, quite astounded, ГўВҖВңbut you will
excuse me if, when I presented myself to you, I was unaware that I
should meet with a person whose knowledge and understanding so far
surpass the usual knowledge and understanding of men. It is not usual
with us corrupted wretches of civilization to find gentlemen like
yourself, possessors, as you are, of immense fortuneГўВҖВ”at least, so it is
saidГўВҖВ”and I beg you to observe that I do not inquire, I merely
repeat;ГўВҖВ”it is not usual, I say, for such privileged and wealthy beings
to waste their time in speculations on the state of society, in
philosophical reveries, intended at best to console those whom fate has
disinherited from the goods of this world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, sir,ГўВҖВқ retorted the count, ГўВҖВңhave you attained the eminent
situation in which you are, without having admitted, or even without
having met with exceptions? and do you never use your eyes, which must
have acquired so much _finesse_ and certainty, to divine, at a glance,
the kind of man by whom you are confronted? Should not a magistrate be
not merely the best administrator of the law, but the most crafty
expounder of the chicanery of his profession, a steel probe to search
hearts, a touchstone to try the gold which in each soul is mingled with
more or less of alloy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңupon my word, you overcome me. I really never
heard a person speak as you do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause you remain eternally encircled in a round of general
conditions, and have never dared to raise your wings into those upper
spheres which God has peopled with invisible or exceptional beings.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you allow then, sir, that spheres exist, and that these marked and
invisible beings mingle amongst us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy should they not? Can you see the air you breathe, and yet without
which you could not for a moment exist?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen we do not see those beings to whom you allude?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, we do; you see them whenever God pleases to allow them to assume
a material form. You touch them, come in contact with them, speak to
them, and they reply to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, smiling, ГўВҖВңI confess I should like to be warned
when one of these beings is in contact with me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have been served as you desire, monsieur, for you were warned just
now, and I now again warn you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you yourself are one of these marked beings?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, monsieur, I believe so; for until now, no man has found himself
in a position similar to mine. The dominions of kings are limited
either by mountains or rivers, or a change of manners, or an alteration
of language. My kingdom is bounded only by the world, for I am not an
Italian, or a Frenchman, or a Hindu, or an American, or a SpaniardГўВҖВ”I am
a cosmopolite. No country can say it saw my birth. God alone knows what
country will see me die. I adopt all customs, speak all languages. You
believe me to be a Frenchman, for I speak French with the same facility
and purity as yourself. Well, Ali, my Nubian, believes me to be an
Arab; Bertuccio, my steward, takes me for a Roman; HaydГғВ©e, my slave,
thinks me a Greek. You may, therefore, comprehend, that being of no
country, asking no protection from any government, acknowledging no man
as my brother, not one of the scruples that arrest the powerful, or the
obstacles which paralyze the weak, paralyzes or arrests me. I have only
two adversariesГўВҖВ”I will not say two conquerors, for with perseverance I
subdue even them,ГўВҖВ”they are time and distance. There is a third, and the
most terribleГўВҖВ”that is my condition as a mortal being. This alone can
stop me in my onward career, before I have attained the goal at which I
aim, for all the rest I have reduced to mathematical terms. What men
call the chances of fateГўВҖВ”namely, ruin, change, circumstancesГўВҖВ”I have
fully anticipated, and if any of these should overtake me, yet it will
not overwhelm me. Unless I die, I shall always be what I am, and
therefore it is that I utter the things you have never heard, even from
the mouths of kingsГўВҖВ”for kings have need, and other persons have fear of
you. For who is there who does not say to himself, in a society as
incongruously organized as ours, ГўВҖВҳPerhaps some day I shall have to do
with the kingГўВҖВҷs attorneyГўВҖВҷ?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut can you not say that, sir? The moment you become an inhabitant of
France, you are naturally subjected to the French law.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut when I visit a country I
begin to study, by all the means which are available, the men from whom
I may have anything to hope or to fear, till I know them as well as,
perhaps better than, they know themselves. It follows from this, that
the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, be he who he may, with whom I should have to deal,
would assuredly be more embarrassed than I should.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is to say,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort with hesitation, ГўВҖВңthat human nature
being weak, every man, according to your creed, has committed faults.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFaults or crimes,ГўВҖВқ responded Monte Cristo with a negligent air.

ГўВҖВңAnd that you alone, amongst the men whom you do not recognize as your
brothersГўВҖВ”for you have said so,ГўВҖВқ observed Villefort in a tone that
faltered somewhatГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyou alone are perfect.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, not perfect,ГўВҖВқ was the countГўВҖВҷs reply; ГўВҖВңonly impenetrable, thatГўВҖВҷs
all. But let us leave off this strain, sir, if the tone of it is
displeasing to you; I am no more disturbed by your justice than are you
by my second-sight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВ”by no means,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, who was afraid of seeming to
abandon his ground. ГўВҖВңNo; by your brilliant and almost sublime
conversation you have elevated me above the ordinary level; we no
longer talk, we rise to dissertation. But you know how the theologians
in their collegiate chairs, and philosophers in their controversies,
occasionally say cruel truths; let us suppose for the moment that we
are theologizing in a social way, or even philosophically, and I will
say to you, rude as it may seem, ГўВҖВҳMy brother, you sacrifice greatly to
pride; you may be above others, but above you there is God.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

30029m



ГўВҖВңAbove us all, sir,ГўВҖВқ was Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs response, in a tone and with an
emphasis so deep that Villefort involuntarily shuddered. ГўВҖВңI have my
pride for menГўВҖВ”serpents always ready to threaten everyone who would pass
without crushing them under foot. But I lay aside that pride before
God, who has taken me from nothing to make me what I am.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, count, I admire you,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, who, for the first time in
this strange conversation, used the aristocratic form to the unknown
personage, whom, until now, he had only called monsieur. ГўВҖВңYes, and I
say to you, if you are really strong, really superior, really pious, or
impenetrable, which you were right in saying amounts to the same
thingГўВҖВ”then be proud, sir, for that is the characteristic of
predominance. Yet you have unquestionably some ambition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what may it be?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI too, as happens to every man once in his life, have been taken by
Satan into the highest mountain in the earth, and when there he showed
me all the kingdoms of the world, and as he said before, so said he to
me, ГўВҖВҳChild of earth, what wouldst thou have to make thee adore me?ГўВҖВҷ I
reflected long, for a gnawing ambition had long preyed upon me, and
then I replied, ГўВҖВҳListen,ГўВҖВ”I have always heard of Providence, and yet I
have never seen him, or anything that resembles him, or which can make
me believe that he exists. I wish to be Providence myself, for I feel
that the most beautiful, noblest, most sublime thing in the world, is
to recompense and punish.ГўВҖВҷ Satan bowed his head, and groaned. ГўВҖВҳYou
mistake,ГўВҖВҷ he said, ГўВҖВҳProvidence does exist, only you have never seen
him, because the child of God is as invisible as the parent. You have
seen nothing that resembles him, because he works by secret springs,
and moves by hidden ways. All I can do for you is to make you one of
the agents of that Providence.ГўВҖВҷ The bargain was concluded. I may
sacrifice my soul, but what matters it?ГўВҖВқ added Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңIf the
thing were to do again, I would again do it.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort looked at Monte Cristo with extreme amazement.

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ he inquired, ГўВҖВңhave you any relations?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir, I am alone in the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the worse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңBecause then you might witness a spectacle calculated to break down
your pride. You say you fear nothing but death?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did not say that I feared it; I only said that death alone could
check the execution of my plans.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd old age?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy end will be achieved before I grow old.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd madness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have been nearly mad; and you know the axiom,ГўВҖВ”_non bis in idem_. It
is an axiom of criminal law, and, consequently, you understand its full
application.ГўВҖВқ

30031m



ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ continued Villefort, ГўВҖВңthere is something to fear besides death,
old age, and madness. For instance, there is apoplexyГўВҖВ”that
lightning-stroke which strikes but does not destroy you, and yet which
brings everything to an end. You are still yourself as now, and yet you
are yourself no longer; you who, like Ariel, verge on the angelic, are
but an inert mass, which, like Caliban, verges on the brutal; and this
is called in human tongues, as I tell you, neither more nor less than
apoplexy. Come, if so you will, count, and continue this conversation
at my house, any day you may be willing to see an adversary capable of
understanding and anxious to refute you, and I will show you my father,
M. Noirtier de Villefort, one of the most fiery Jacobins of the French
Revolution; that is to say, he had the most remarkable audacity,
seconded by a most powerful organizationГўВҖВ”a man who has not, perhaps,
like yourself seen all the kingdoms of the earth, but who has helped to
overturn one of the greatest; in fact, a man who believed himself, like
you, one of the envoys, not of God, but of a supreme being; not of
Providence, but of fate. Well, sir, the rupture of a blood-vessel on
the lobe of the brain has destroyed all this, not in a day, not in an
hour, but in a second. M. Noirtier, who, on the previous night, was the
old Jacobin, the old senator, the old Carbonaro, laughing at the
guillotine, the cannon, and the daggerГўВҖВ”M. Noirtier, playing with
revolutionsГўВҖВ”M. Noirtier, for whom France was a vast chess-board, from
which pawns, rooks, knights, and queens were to disappear, so that the
king was checkmatedГўВҖВ”M. Noirtier, the redoubtable, was the next morning
_poor M. Noirtier_, the helpless old man, at the tender mercies of the
weakest creature in the household, that is, his grandchild, Valentine;
a dumb and frozen carcass, in fact, living painlessly on, that time may
be given for his frame to decompose without his consciousness of its
decay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңthis spectacle is neither strange to my
eye nor my thought. I am something of a physician, and have, like my
fellows, sought more than once for the soul in living and in dead
matter; yet, like Providence, it has remained invisible to my eyes,
although present to my heart. A hundred writers since Socrates, Seneca,
St. Augustine, and Gall, have made, in verse and prose, the comparison
you have made, and yet I can well understand that a fatherГўВҖВҷs sufferings
may effect great changes in the mind of a son. I will call on you, sir,
since you bid me contemplate, for the advantage of my pride, this
terrible spectacle, which must have been so great a source of sorrow to
your family.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt would have been so unquestionably, had not God given me so large a
compensation. In contrast with the old man, who is dragging his way to
the tomb, are two children just entering into lifeГўВҖВ”Valentine, the
daughter by my first wifeГўВҖВ”Mademoiselle RenГғВ©e de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВ”and Edward,
the boy whose life you have this day saved.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is your deduction from this compensation, sir?ГўВҖВқ inquired
Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңMy deduction is,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, ГўВҖВңthat my father, led away by his
passions, has committed some fault unknown to human justice, but marked
by the justice of God. That God, desirous in his mercy to punish but
one person, has visited this justice on him alone.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo with a smile on his lips, uttered in the depths of his
soul a groan which would have made Villefort fly had he but heard it.

ГўВҖВңAdieu, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the magistrate, who had risen from his seat; ГўВҖВңI
leave you, bearing a remembrance of youГўВҖВ”a remembrance of esteem, which
I hope will not be disagreeable to you when you know me better; for I
am not a man to bore my friends, as you will learn. Besides, you have
made an eternal friend of Madame de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

The count bowed, and contented himself with seeing Villefort to the
door of his cabinet, the procureur being escorted to his carriage by
two footmen, who, on a signal from their master, followed him with
every mark of attention. When he had gone, Monte Cristo breathed a
profound sigh, and said:

ГўВҖВңEnough of this poison, let me now seek the antidote.ГўВҖВқ

Then sounding his bell, he said to Ali, who entered:

ГўВҖВңI am going to madameГўВҖВҷs chamberГўВҖВ”have the carriage ready at one
oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 49. HaydГғВ©e

It will be recollected that the new, or rather old, acquaintances of
the Count of Monte Cristo, residing in the Rue Meslay, were no other
than Maximilian, Julie, and Emmanuel.

The very anticipations of delight to be enjoyed in his forthcoming
visitsГўВҖВ”the bright, pure gleam of heavenly happiness it diffused over
the almost deadly warfare in which he had voluntarily engaged,
illumined his whole countenance with a look of ineffable joy and
calmness, as, immediately after VillefortГўВҖВҷs departure, his thoughts
flew back to the cheering prospect before him, of tasting, at least, a
brief respite from the fierce and stormy passions of his mind. Even
Ali, who had hastened to obey the CountГўВҖВҷs summons, went forth from his
masterГўВҖВҷs presence in charmed amazement at the unusual animation and
pleasure depicted on features ordinarily so stern and cold; while, as
though dreading to put to flight the agreeable ideas hovering over his
patronГўВҖВҷs meditations, whatever they were, the faithful Nubian walked on
tiptoe towards the door, holding his breath, lest its faintest sound
should dissipate his masterГўВҖВҷs happy reverie.

It was noon, and Monte Cristo had set apart one hour to be passed in
the apartments of HaydГғВ©e, as though his oppressed spirit could not all
at once admit the feeling of pure and unmixed joy, but required a
gradual succession of calm and gentle emotions to prepare his mind to
receive full and perfect happiness, in the same manner as ordinary
natures demand to be inured by degrees to the reception of strong or
violent sensations.

The young Greek, as we have already said, occupied apartments wholly
unconnected with those of the count. The rooms had been fitted up in
strict accordance with Oriental ideas; the floors were covered with the
richest carpets Turkey could produce; the walls hung with brocaded silk
of the most magnificent designs and texture; while around each chamber
luxurious divans were placed, with piles of soft and yielding cushions,
that needed only to be arranged at the pleasure or convenience of such
as sought repose.

HaydГғВ©e had three French maids, and one who was a Greek. The first three
remained constantly in a small waiting-room, ready to obey the summons
of a small golden bell, or to receive the orders of the Romaic slave,
who knew just enough French to be able to transmit her mistressГўВҖВҷs
wishes to the three other waiting-women; the latter had received most
peremptory instructions from Monte Cristo to treat HaydГғВ©e with all the
deference they would observe to a queen.

The young girl herself generally passed her time in the chamber at the
farther end of her apartments. This was a sort of boudoir, circular,
and lighted only from the roof, which consisted of rose-colored glass.
HaydГғВ©e was reclining upon soft downy cushions, covered with blue satin
spotted with silver; her head, supported by one of her exquisitely
moulded arms, rested on the divan immediately behind her, while the
other was employed in adjusting to her lips the coral tube of a rich
narghile, through whose flexible pipe she drew the smoke fragrant by
its passage through perfumed water. Her attitude, though perfectly
natural for an Eastern woman would, in a European, have been deemed too
full of coquettish straining after effect.

Her dress, which was that of the women of Epirus, consisted of a pair
of white satin trousers, embroidered with pink roses, displaying feet
so exquisitely formed and so delicately fair, that they might well have
been taken for Parian marble, had not the eye been undeceived by their
movements as they constantly shifted in and out of a pair of little
slippers with upturned toes, beautifully ornamented with gold and
pearls. She wore a blue and white-striped vest, with long open sleeves,
trimmed with silver loops and buttons of pearls, and a sort of bodice,
which, closing only from the centre to the waist, exhibited the whole
of the ivory throat and upper part of the bosom; it was fastened with
three magnificent diamond clasps. The junction of the bodice and
drawers was entirely concealed by one of the many-colored scarves,
whose brilliant hues and rich silken fringe have rendered them so
precious in the eyes of Parisian belles.

Tilted on one side of her head she had a small cap of gold-colored
silk, embroidered with pearls; while on the other a purple rose mingled
its glowing colors with the luxuriant masses of her hair, of which the
blackness was so intense that it was tinged with blue.

The extreme beauty of the countenance, that shone forth in loveliness
that mocked the vain attempts of dress to augment it, was peculiarly
and purely Grecian; there were the large, dark, melting eyes, the
finely formed nose, the coral lips, and pearly teeth, that belonged to
her race and country.

And, to complete the whole, HaydГғВ©e was in the very springtide and
fulness of youthful charmsГўВҖВ”she had not yet numbered more than nineteen
or twenty summers.

Monte Cristo summoned the Greek attendant, and bade her inquire whether
it would be agreeable to her mistress to receive his visit. HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs
only reply was to direct her servant by a sign to withdraw the
tapestried curtain that hung before the door of her boudoir, the
framework of the opening thus made serving as a sort of border to the
graceful tableau presented by the young girlГўВҖВҷs picturesque attitude and
appearance.

As Monte Cristo approached, she leaned upon the elbow of the arm that
held the narghile, and extending to him her other hand, said, with a
smile of captivating sweetness, in the sonorous language spoken by the
women of Athens and Sparta:

ГўВҖВңWhy demand permission ere you enter? Are you no longer my master, or
have I ceased to be your slave?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo returned her smile.

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңyou well know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy do you address me so coldlyГўВҖВ”so distantly?ГўВҖВқ asked the young Greek.
ГўВҖВңHave I by any means displeased you? Oh, if so, punish me as you will;
but do notГўВҖВ”do not speak to me in tones and manner so formal and
constrained.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңyou know that you are now in France, and
are free.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFree to do what?ГўВҖВқ asked the young girl.

ГўВҖВңFree to leave me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLeave you? Why should I leave you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is not for me to say; but we are now about to mix in societyГўВҖВ”to
visit and be visited.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt wish to see anybody but you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd should you see one whom you could prefer, I would not be so
unjustГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have never seen anyone I preferred to you, and I have never loved
anyone but you and my father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy poor child,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat is merely because your
father and myself are the only men who have ever talked to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt want anybody else to talk to me. My father said I was his
ГўВҖВҳjoyГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”you style me your ГўВҖВҳlove,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”and both of you have called me ГўВҖВҳmy
child.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you remember your father, HaydГғВ©e?ГўВҖВқ

The young Greek smiled.

ГўВҖВңHe is here, and here,ГўВҖВқ said she, touching her eyes and her heart.

ГўВҖВңAnd where am I?ГўВҖВқ inquired Monte Cristo laughingly.

ГўВҖВңYou?ГўВҖВқ cried she, with tones of thrilling tenderness, ГўВҖВңyou are
everywhere!ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo took the delicate hand of the young girl in
his, and was about to raise it to his lips, when the simple child of
nature hastily withdrew it, and presented her cheek.

ГўВҖВңYou now understand, HaydГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthat from this moment
you are absolutely free; that here you exercise unlimited sway, and are
at liberty to lay aside or continue the costume of your country, as it
may suit your inclination. Within this mansion you are absolute
mistress of your actions, and may go abroad or remain in your
apartments as may seem most agreeable to you. A carriage waits your
orders, and Ali and Myrtho will accompany you whithersoever you desire
to go. There is but one favor I would entreat of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSpeak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGuard carefully the secret of your birth. Make no allusion to the
past; nor upon any occasion be induced to pronounce the names of your
illustrious father or ill-fated mother.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have already told you, my lord, that I shall see no one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is possible, HaydГғВ©e, that so perfect a seclusion, though
conformable with the habits and customs of the East, may not be
practicable in Paris. Endeavor, then, to accustom yourself to our
manner of living in these northern climes as you did to those of Rome,
Florence, Milan, and Madrid; it may be useful to you one of these days,
whether you remain here or return to the East.ГўВҖВқ

The young girl raised her tearful eyes towards Monte Cristo as she said
with touching earnestness, ГўВҖВңWhether _we_ return to the East, you mean
to say, my lord, do you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy child,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңyou know full well that whenever we
part, it will be no fault or wish of mine; the tree forsakes not the
flowerГўВҖВ”the flower falls from the tree.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy lord,ГўВҖВқ replied HaydГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңI never will leave you, for I am sure I
could not exist without you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy poor girl, in ten years I shall be old, and you will be still
young.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father had a long white beard, but I loved him; he was sixty years
old, but to me he was handsomer than all the fine youths I saw.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen tell me, HaydГғВ©e, do you believe you shall be able to accustom
yourself to our present mode of life?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I see you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEvery day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen what do you fear, my lord?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou might find it dull.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my lord. In the morning, I shall rejoice in the prospect of your
coming, and in the evening dwell with delight on the happiness I have
enjoyed in your presence; then too, when alone, I can call forth mighty
pictures of the past, see vast horizons bounded only by the towering
mountains of Pindus and Olympus. Oh, believe me, that when three great
passions, such as sorrow, love, and gratitude fill the heart, _ennui_
can find no place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are a worthy daughter of Epirus, HaydГғВ©e, and your charming and
poetical ideas prove well your descent from that race of goddesses who
claim your country as their birthplace. Depend on my care to see that
your youth is not blighted, or suffered to pass away in ungenial
solitude; and of this be well assured, that if you love me as a father,
I love you as a child.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are wrong, my lord. The love I have for you is very different from
the love I had for my father. My father died, but I did not die. If you
were to die, I should die too.ГўВҖВқ

The count, with a smile of profound tenderness, extended his hand, and
she carried it to her lips.

Monte Cristo, thus attuned to the interview he proposed to hold with
Morrel and his family, departed, murmuring as he went these lines of
Pindar, ГўВҖВңYouth is a flower of which love is the fruit; happy is he who,
after having watched its silent growth, is permitted to gather and call
it his own.ГўВҖВқ The carriage was prepared according to orders, and
stepping lightly into it, the count drove off at his usual rapid pace.



 Chapter 50. The Morrel Family

In a very few minutes the count reached No. 7 in the Rue Meslay. The
house was of white stone, and in a small court before it were two small
beds full of beautiful flowers. In the concierge that opened the gate
the count recognized Cocles; but as he had but one eye, and that eye
had become somewhat dim in the course of nine years, Cocles did not
recognize the count.

The carriages that drove up to the door were compelled to turn, to
avoid a fountain that played in a basin of rockwork,ГўВҖВ”an ornament that
had excited the jealousy of the whole quarter, and had gained for the
place the appellation of _The Little Versailles_. It is needless to add
that there were gold and silver fish in the basin. The house, with
kitchens and cellars below, had above the ground floor, two stories and
attics. The whole of the property, consisting of an immense workshop,
two pavilions at the bottom of the garden, and the garden itself, had
been purchased by Emmanuel, who had seen at a glance that he could make
of it a profitable speculation. He had reserved the house and half the
garden, and building a wall between the garden and the workshops, had
let them upon lease with the pavilions at the bottom of the garden. So
that for a trifling sum he was as well lodged, and as perfectly shut
out from observation, as the inhabitants of the finest mansion in the
Faubourg St. Germain.

The breakfast-room was finished in oak; the salon in mahogany, and the
furnishings were of blue velvet; the bedroom was in citronwood and
green damask. There was a study for Emmanuel, who never studied, and a
music-room for Julie, who never played. The whole of the second story
was set apart for Maximilian; it was precisely similar to his sisterГўВҖВҷs
apartments, except that for the breakfast-parlor he had a
billiard-room, where he received his friends. He was superintending the
grooming of his horse, and smoking his cigar at the entrance of the
garden, when the countГўВҖВҷs carriage stopped at the gate.

Cocles opened the gate, and Baptistin, springing from the box, inquired
whether Monsieur and Madame Herbault and Monsieur Maximilian Morrel
would see his excellency the Count of Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, throwing away his cigar and
hastening to the carriage; ГўВҖВңI should think we would see him. Ah, a
thousand thanks, count, for not having forgotten your promise.ГўВҖВқ

And the young officer shook the countГўВҖВҷs hand so warmly, that Monte
Cristo could not be mistaken as to the sincerity of his joy, and he saw
that he had been expected with impatience, and was received with
pleasure.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңI will serve as your guide; such a man
as you are ought not to be introduced by a servant. My sister is in the
garden plucking the dead roses; my brother is reading his two papers,
_la Presse_ and _les DГғВ©bats_, within six steps of her; for wherever you
see Madame Herbault, you have only to look within a circle of four
yards and you will find M. Emmanuel, and ГўВҖВҳreciprocally,ГўВҖВҷ as they say at
the Polytechnic School.ГўВҖВқ

At the sound of their steps a young woman of twenty to five-and-twenty,
dressed in a silk morning gown, and busily engaged in plucking the dead
leaves off a noisette rose-tree, raised her head. This was Julie, who
had become, as the clerk of the house of Thomson & French had
predicted, Madame Emmanuel Herbault. She uttered a cry of surprise at
the sight of a stranger, and Maximilian began to laugh.

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt disturb yourself, Julie,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңThe count has only been two
or three days in Paris, but he already knows what a fashionable woman
of the Marais is, and if he does not, you will show him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ returned Julie, ГўВҖВңit is treason in my brother to bring
you thus, but he never has any regard for his poor sister. Penelon,
Penelon!ГўВҖВқ

An old man, who was digging busily at one of the beds, stuck his spade
in the earth, and approached, cap in hand, striving to conceal a quid
of tobacco he had just thrust into his cheek. A few locks of gray
mingled with his hair, which was still thick and matted, while his
bronzed features and determined glance well suited an old sailor who
had braved the heat of the equator and the storms of the tropics.

ГўВҖВңI think you hailed me, Mademoiselle Julie?ГўВҖВқ said he.

Penelon had still preserved the habit of calling his masterГўВҖВҷs daughter
ГўВҖВңMademoiselle Julie,ГўВҖВқ and had never been able to change the name to
Madame Herbault.

ГўВҖВңPenelon,ГўВҖВқ replied Julie, ГўВҖВңgo and inform M. Emmanuel of this
gentlemanГўВҖВҷs visit, and Maximilian will conduct him to the salon.ГўВҖВқ

Then, turning to Monte Cristo,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI hope you will permit me to leave you
for a few minutes,ГўВҖВқ continued she; and without awaiting any reply,
disappeared behind a clump of trees, and escaped to the house by a
lateral alley.

30041m



ГўВҖВңI am sorry to see,ГўВҖВқ observed Monte Cristo to Morrel, ГўВҖВңthat I cause no
small disturbance in your house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLook there,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, laughing; ГўВҖВңthere is her husband changing
his jacket for a coat. I assure you, you are well known in the Rue
Meslay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour family appears to be a very happy one,ГўВҖВқ said the count, as if
speaking to himself.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, I assure you, count, they want nothing that can render them
happy; they are young and cheerful, they are tenderly attached to each
other, and with twenty-five thousand francs a year they fancy
themselves as rich as Rothschild.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFive-and-twenty thousand francs is not a large sum, however,ГўВҖВқ replied
Monte Cristo, with a tone so sweet and gentle, that it went to
MaximilianГўВҖВҷs heart like the voice of a father; ГўВҖВңbut they will not be
content with that. Your brother-in-law is a barrister? a doctor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe was a merchant, monsieur, and had succeeded to the business of my
poor father. M. Morrel, at his death, left 500,000 francs, which were
divided between my sister and myself, for we were his only children.
Her husband, who, when he married her, had no other patrimony than his
noble probity, his first-rate ability, and his spotless reputation,
wished to possess as much as his wife. He labored and toiled until he
had amassed 250,000 francs; six years sufficed to achieve this object.
Oh, I assure you, sir, it was a touching spectacle to see these young
creatures, destined by their talents for higher stations, toiling
together, and through their unwillingness to change any of the customs
of their paternal house, taking six years to accomplish what less
scrupulous people would have effected in two or three. Marseilles
resounded with their well-earned praises. At last, one day, Emmanuel
came to his wife, who had just finished making up the accounts.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳJulie,ГўВҖВҷ said he to her, ГўВҖВҳCocles has just given me the last rouleau of
a hundred francs; that completes the 250,000 francs we had fixed as the
limits of our gains. Can you content yourself with the small fortune
which we shall possess for the future? Listen to me. Our house
transacts business to the amount of a million a year, from which we
derive an income of 40,000 francs. We can dispose of the business, if
we please, in an hour, for I have received a letter from M. Delaunay,
in which he offers to purchase the good-will of the house, to unite
with his own, for 300,000 francs. Advise me what I had better do.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳEmmanuel,ГўВҖВҷ returned my sister, ГўВҖВҳthe house of Morrel can only be
carried on by a Morrel. Is it not worth 300,000 francs to save our
fatherГўВҖВҷs name from the chances of evil fortune and failure?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI thought so,ГўВҖВҷ replied Emmanuel; ГўВҖВҳbut I wished to have your advice.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThis is my counsel:ГўВҖВ”Our accounts are made up and our bills paid; all
we have to do is to stop the issue of any more, and close our office.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThis was done instantly. It was three oГўВҖВҷclock; at a quarter past, a
merchant presented himself to insure two ships; it was a clear profit
of 15,000 francs.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMonsieur,ГўВҖВҷ said Emmanuel, ГўВҖВҳhave the goodness to address yourself to
M. Delaunay. We have quitted business.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHow long?ГўВҖВҷ inquired the astonished merchant.

30043m



ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳA quarter of an hour,ГўВҖВҷ was the reply.

ГўВҖВңAnd this is the reason, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ continued Maximilian, ГўВҖВңof my sister
and brother-in-law having only 25,000 francs a year.ГўВҖВқ

Maximilian had scarcely finished his story, during which the countГўВҖВҷs
heart had swelled within him, when Emmanuel entered wearing a hat and
coat. He saluted the count with the air of a man who is aware of the
rank of his guest; then, after having led Monte Cristo around the
little garden, he returned to the house.

A large vase of Japan porcelain, filled with flowers that loaded the
air with their perfume, stood in the salon. Julie, suitably dressed,
and her hair arranged (she had accomplished this feat in less than ten
minutes), received the count on his entrance. The songs of the birds
were heard in an aviary hard by, and the branches of laburnums and rose
acacias formed an exquisite framework to the blue velvet curtains.
Everything in this charming retreat, from the warble of the birds to
the smile of the mistress, breathed tranquillity and repose.

The count had felt the influence of this happiness from the moment he
entered the house, and he remained silent and pensive, forgetting that
he was expected to renew the conversation, which had ceased after the
first salutations had been exchanged. The silence became almost painful
when, by a violent effort, tearing himself from his pleasing reverie:

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said he at length, ГўВҖВңI pray you to excuse my emotion, which
must astonish you who are only accustomed to the happiness I meet here;
but contentment is so new a sight to me, that I could never be weary of
looking at yourself and your husband.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are very happy, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ replied Julie; ГўВҖВңbut we have also known
unhappiness, and few have ever undergone more bitter sufferings than
ourselves.ГўВҖВқ

The countГўВҖВҷs features displayed an expression of the most intense
curiosity.

ГўВҖВңOh, all this is a family history, as ChГғВўteau-Renaud told you the other
day,ГўВҖВқ observed Maximilian. ГўВҖВңThis humble picture would have but little
interest for you, accustomed as you are to behold the pleasures and the
misfortunes of the wealthy and industrious; but such as we are, we have
experienced bitter sorrows.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd God has poured balm into your wounds, as he does into those of all
who are in affliction?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo inquiringly.

ГўВҖВңYes, count,ГўВҖВқ returned Julie, ГўВҖВңwe may indeed say he has, for he has
done for us what he grants only to his chosen; he sent us one of his
angels.ГўВҖВқ

The countГўВҖВҷs cheeks became scarlet, and he coughed, in order to have an
excuse for putting his handkerchief to his mouth.

ГўВҖВңThose born to wealth, and who have the means of gratifying every
wish,ГўВҖВқ said Emmanuel, ГўВҖВңknow not what is the real happiness of life,
just as those who have been tossed on the stormy waters of the ocean on
a few frail planks can alone realize the blessings of fair weather.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo rose, and without making any answer (for the tremulousness
of his voice would have betrayed his emotion) walked up and down the
apartment with a slow step.

ГўВҖВңOur magnificence makes you smile, count,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, who had
followed him with his eyes.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo, pale as death, pressing one hand on
his heart to still its throbbings, while with the other he pointed to a
crystal cover, beneath which a silken purse lay on a black velvet
cushion. ГўВҖВңI was wondering what could be the significance of this purse,
with the paper at one end and the large diamond at the other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ replied Maximilian, with an air of gravity, ГўВҖВңthose are our
most precious family treasures.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe stone seems very brilliant,ГўВҖВқ answered the count.

ГўВҖВңOh, my brother does not allude to its value, although it has been
estimated at 100,000 francs; he means, that the articles contained in
this purse are the relics of the angel I spoke of just now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis I do not comprehend; and yet I may not ask for an explanation,
madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo bowing. ГўВҖВңPardon me, I had no intention of
committing an indiscretion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndiscretion,ГўВҖВ”oh, you make us happy by giving us an excuse for
expatiating on this subject. If we wanted to conceal the noble action
this purse commemorates, we should not expose it thus to view. Oh,
would we could relate it everywhere, and to everyone, so that the
emotion of our unknown benefactor might reveal his presence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, really,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo in a half-stifled voice.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ returned Maximilian, raising the glass cover, and
respectfully kissing the silken purse, ГўВҖВңthis has touched the hand of a
man who saved my father from suicide, us from ruin, and our name from
shame and disgrace,ГўВҖВ”a man by whose matchless benevolence we poor
children, doomed to want and wretchedness, can at present hear everyone
envying our happy lot. This letterГўВҖВқ (as he spoke, Maximilian drew a
letter from the purse and gave it to the count)ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңthis letter was
written by him the day that my father had taken a desperate resolution,
and this diamond was given by the generous unknown to my sister as her
dowry.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo opened the letter, and read it with an indescribable
feeling of delight. It was the letter written (as our readers know) to
Julie, and signed ГўВҖВңSinbad the Sailor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnknown you say, is the man who rendered you this serviceГўВҖВ”unknown to
you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; we have never had the happiness of pressing his hand,ГўВҖВқ continued
Maximilian. ГўВҖВңWe have supplicated Heaven in vain to grant us this favor,
but the whole affair has had a mysterious meaning that we cannot
comprehendГўВҖВ”we have been guided by an invisible hand,ГўВҖВ”a hand as powerful
as that of an enchanter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried Julie, ГўВҖВңI have not lost all hope of some day kissing that
hand, as I now kiss the purse which he has touched. Four years ago,
Penelon was at TriesteГўВҖВ”Penelon, count, is the old sailor you saw in the
garden, and who, from quartermaster, has become gardenerГўВҖВ”Penelon, when
he was at Trieste, saw on the quay an Englishman, who was on the point
of embarking on board a yacht, and he recognized him as the person who
called on my father the fifth of June, 1829, and who wrote me this
letter on the fifth of September. He felt convinced of his identity,
but he did not venture to address him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn Englishman,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, who grew uneasy at the attention
with which Julie looked at him. ГўВҖВңAn Englishman you say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Maximilian, ГўВҖВңan Englishman, who represented himself as
the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson & French, at Rome. It
was this that made me start when you said the other day, at M. de
MorcerfГўВҖВҷs, that Messrs. Thomson & French were your bankers. That
happened, as I told you, in 1829. For GodГўВҖВҷs sake, tell me, did you know
this Englishman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you tell me, also, that the house of Thomson & French have
constantly denied having rendered you this service?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen is it not probable that this Englishman may be someone who,
grateful for a kindness your father had shown him, and which he himself
had forgotten, has taken this method of requiting the obligation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverything is possible in this affair, even a miracle.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was his name?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңHe gave no other name,ГўВҖВқ answered Julie, looking earnestly at the
count, ГўВҖВңthan that at the end of his letterГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳSinbad the Sailor.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich is evidently not his real name, but a fictitious one.ГўВҖВқ

Then, noticing that Julie was struck with the sound of his voice:

ГўВҖВңTell me,ГўВҖВқ continued he, ГўВҖВңwas he not about my height, perhaps a little
taller, with his chin imprisoned, as it were, in a high cravat; his
coat closely buttoned up, and constantly taking out his pencil?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, do you then know him?ГўВҖВқ cried Julie, whose eyes sparkled with joy.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңI only guessed. I knew a Lord Wilmore, who
was constantly doing actions of this kind.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWithout revealing himself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe was an eccentric being, and did not believe in the existence of
gratitude.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, Heaven,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Julie, clasping her hands, ГўВҖВңin what did he
believe, then?ГўВҖВқ

30047m



ГўВҖВңHe did not credit it at the period which I knew him,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo, touched to the heart by the accents of JulieГўВҖВҷs voice; ГўВҖВңbut,
perhaps, since then he has had proofs that gratitude does exist.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you know this gentleman, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ inquired Emmanuel.

ГўВҖВңOh, if you do know him,ГўВҖВқ cried Julie, ГўВҖВңcan you tell us where he
isГўВҖВ”where we can find him? MaximilianГўВҖВ”EmmanuelГўВҖВ”if we do but discover
him, he must believe in the gratitude of the heart!ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo felt tears start into his eyes, and he again walked
hastily up and down the room.

ГўВҖВңIn the name of Heaven,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңif you know anything of him,
tell us what it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ cried Monte Cristo, striving to repress his emotion, ГўВҖВңif Lord
Wilmore was your unknown benefactor, I fear you will never see him
again. I parted from him two years ago at Palermo, and he was then on
the point of setting out for the most remote regions; so that I fear he
will never return.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, monsieur, this is cruel of you,ГўВҖВқ said Julie, much affected; and
the young ladyГўВҖВҷs eyes swam with tears.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo gravely, and gazing earnestly on the two
liquid pearls that trickled down JulieГўВҖВҷs cheeks, ГўВҖВңhad Lord Wilmore seen
what I now see, he would become attached to life, for the tears you
shed would reconcile him to mankind;ГўВҖВқ and he held out his hand to
Julie, who gave him hers, carried away by the look and accent of the
count.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ continued she, ГўВҖВңLord Wilmore had a family or friends, he must
have known someone, can we notГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is useless to inquire,ГўВҖВқ returned the count; ГўВҖВңperhaps, after
all, he was not the man you seek for. He was my friend: he had no
secrets from me, and if this had been so he would have confided in me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd he told you nothing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot a word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing that would lead you to suppose?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd yet you spoke of him at once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, in such a case one supposesГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSister, sister,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, coming to the countГўВҖВҷs aid, ГўВҖВңmonsieur
is quite right. Recollect what our excellent father so often told us,
ГўВҖВҳIt was no Englishman that thus saved us.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo started. ГўВҖВңWhat did your father tell you, M. Morrel?ГўВҖВқ said
he eagerly.

ГўВҖВңMy father thought that this action had been miraculously performedГўВҖВ”he
believed that a benefactor had arisen from the grave to save us. Oh, it
was a touching superstition, monsieur, and although I did not myself
believe it, I would not for the world have destroyed my fatherГўВҖВҷs faith.
How often did he muse over it and pronounce the name of a dear friendГўВҖВ”a
friend lost to him forever; and on his death-bed, when the near
approach of eternity seemed to have illumined his mind with
supernatural light, this thought, which had until then been but a
doubt, became a conviction, and his last words were, ГўВҖВҳMaximilian, it
was Edmond DantГғВЁs!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

At these words the countГўВҖВҷs paleness, which had for some time been
increasing, became alarming; he could not speak; he looked at his watch
like a man who has forgotten the hour, said a few hurried words to
Madame Herbault, and pressing the hands of Emmanuel and
Maximilian,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI trust you will allow me to visit you
occasionally; I value your friendship, and feel grateful to you for
your welcome, for this is the first time for many years that I have
thus yielded to my feelings;ГўВҖВқ and he hastily quitted the apartment.

ГўВҖВңThis Count of Monte Cristo is a strange man,ГўВҖВқ said Emmanuel.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ answered Maximilian, ГўВҖВңbut I feel sure he has an excellent heart,
and that he likes us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis voice went to my heart,ГўВҖВқ observed Julie; ГўВҖВңand two or three times I
fancied that I had heard it before.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 51. Pyramus and Thisbe

About two-thirds of the way along the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©, and in the
rear of one of the most imposing mansions in this rich neighborhood,
where the various houses vie with each other for elegance of design and
magnificence of construction, extended a large garden, where the
wide-spreading chestnut-trees raised their heads high above the walls
in a solid rampart, and with the coming of every spring scattered a
shower of delicate pink and white blossoms into the large stone vases
that stood upon the two square pilasters of a curiously wrought iron
gate, that dated from the time of Louis XIII.

This noble entrance, however, in spite of its striking appearance and
the graceful effect of the geraniums planted in the two vases, as they
waved their variegated leaves in the wind and charmed the eye with
their scarlet bloom, had fallen into utter disuse. The proprietors of
the mansion had many years before thought it best to confine themselves
to the possession of the house itself, with its thickly planted
courtyard, opening into the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©, and to the garden
shut in by this gate, which formerly communicated with a fine
kitchen-garden of about an acre. For the demon of speculation drew a
line, or in other words projected a street, at the farther side of the
kitchen-garden. The street was laid out, a name was chosen and posted
up on an iron plate, but before construction was begun, it occurred to
the possessor of the property that a handsome sum might be obtained for
the ground then devoted to fruits and vegetables, by building along the
line of the proposed street, and so making it a branch of communication
with the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ© itself, one of the most important
thoroughfares in the city of Paris.

In matters of speculation, however, though ГўВҖВңman proposes,ГўВҖВқ yet ГўВҖВңmoney
disposes.ГўВҖВқ From some such difficulty the newly named street died almost
in birth, and the purchaser of the kitchen-garden, having paid a high
price for it, and being quite unable to find anyone willing to take his
bargain off his hands without a considerable loss, yet still clinging
to the belief that at some future day he should obtain a sum for it
that would repay him, not only for his past outlay, but also the
interest upon the capital locked up in his new acquisition, contented
himself with letting the ground temporarily to some market-gardeners,
at a yearly rental of 500 francs.

And so, as we have said, the iron gate leading into the kitchen-garden
had been closed up and left to the rust, which bade fair before long to
eat off its hinges, while to prevent the ignoble glances of the diggers
and delvers of the ground from presuming to sully the aristocratic
enclosure belonging to the mansion, the gate had been boarded up to a
height of six feet. True, the planks were not so closely adjusted but
that a hasty peep might be obtained through their interstices; but the
strict decorum and rigid propriety of the inhabitants of the house left
no grounds for apprehending that advantage would be taken of that
circumstance.

Horticulture seemed, however, to have been abandoned in the deserted
kitchen-garden; and where cabbages, carrots, radishes, peas, and melons
had once flourished, a scanty crop of lucern alone bore evidence of its
being deemed worthy of cultivation. A small, low door gave egress from
the walled space we have been describing into the projected street, the
ground having been abandoned as unproductive by its various renters,
and had now fallen so completely in general estimation as to return not
even the one-half per cent it had originally paid. Towards the house
the chestnut-trees we have before mentioned rose high above the wall,
without in any way affecting the growth of other luxuriant shrubs and
flowers that eagerly dressed forward to fill up the vacant spaces, as
though asserting their right to enjoy the boon of light and air. At one
corner, where the foliage became so thick as almost to shut out day, a
large stone bench and sundry rustic seats indicated that this sheltered
spot was either in general favor or particular use by some inhabitant
of the house, which was faintly discernible through the dense mass of
verdure that partially concealed it, though situated but a hundred
paces off.

Whoever had selected this retired portion of the grounds as the
boundary of a walk, or as a place for meditation, was abundantly
justified in the choice by the absence of all glare, the cool,
refreshing shade, the screen it afforded from the scorching rays of the
sun, that found no entrance there even during the burning days of
hottest summer, the incessant and melodious warbling of birds, and the
entire removal from either the noise of the street or the bustle of the
mansion. On the evening of one of the warmest days spring had yet
bestowed on the inhabitants of Paris, might be seen negligently thrown
upon the stone bench, a book, a parasol, and a work-basket, from which
hung a partly embroidered cambric handkerchief, while at a little
distance from these articles was a young woman, standing close to the
iron gate, endeavoring to discern something on the other side by means
of the openings in the planks,ГўВҖВ”the earnestness of her attitude and the
fixed gaze with which she seemed to seek the object of her wishes,
proving how much her feelings were interested in the matter.

At that instant the little side-gate leading from the waste ground to
the street was noiselessly opened, and a tall, powerful young man
appeared. He was dressed in a common gray blouse and velvet cap, but
his carefully arranged hair, beard and moustache, all of the richest
and glossiest black, ill accorded with his plebeian attire. After
casting a rapid glance around him, in order to assure himself that he
was unobserved, he entered by the small gate, and, carefully closing
and securing it after him, proceeded with a hurried step towards the
barrier.

At the sight of him she expected, though probably not in such a
costume, the young woman started in terror, and was about to make a
hasty retreat. But the eye of love had already seen, even through the
narrow chinks of the wooden palisades, the movement of the white robe,
and observed the fluttering of the blue sash. Pressing his lips close
to the planks, he exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt be alarmed, ValentineГўВҖВ”it is I!ГўВҖВқ

Again the timid girl found courage to return to the gate, saying, as
she did so:

ГўВҖВңAnd why do you come so late today? It is almost dinner-time, and I had
to use no little diplomacy to get rid of my watchful stepmother, my
too-devoted maid, and my troublesome brother, who is always teasing me
about coming to work at my embroidery, which I am in a fair way never
to get done. So pray excuse yourself as well as you can for having made
me wait, and, after that, tell me why I see you in a dress so singular
that at first I did not recognize you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDearest Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңthe difference between our
respective stations makes me fear to offend you by speaking of my love,
but yet I cannot find myself in your presence without longing to pour
forth my soul, and tell you how fondly I adore you. If it be but to
carry away with me the recollection of such sweet moments, I could even
thank you for chiding me, for it leaves me a gleam of hope, that if you
did not expect me (and that indeed would be worse than vanity to
suppose), at least I was in your thoughts. You asked me the cause of my
being late, and why I come disguised. I will candidly explain the
reason of both, and I trust to your goodness to pardon me. I have
chosen a trade.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA trade? Oh, Maximilian, how can you jest at a time when we have such
deep cause for uneasiness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHeaven keep me from jesting with that which is far dearer to me than
life itself! But listen to me, Valentine, and I will tell you all about
it. I became weary of ranging fields and scaling walls, and seriously
alarmed at the idea suggested by you, that if caught hovering about
here your father would very likely have me sent to prison as a thief.
That would compromise the honor of the French army, to say nothing of
the fact that the continual presence of a captain of Spahis in a place
where no warlike projects could be supposed to account for it might
well create surprise; so I have become a gardener, and, consequently,
adopted the costume of my calling.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat excessive nonsense you talk, Maximilian!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNonsense? Pray do not call what I consider the wisest action of my
life by such a name. Consider, by becoming a gardener I effectually
screen our meetings from all suspicion or danger.ГўВҖВқ

30053m



ГўВҖВңI beseech of you, Maximilian, to cease trifling, and tell me what you
really mean.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSimply, that having ascertained that the piece of ground on which I
stand was to let, I made application for it, was readily accepted by
the proprietor, and am now master of this fine crop of lucern. Think of
that, Valentine! There is nothing now to prevent my building myself a
little hut on my plantation, and residing not twenty yards from you.
Only imagine what happiness that would afford me. I can scarcely
contain myself at the bare idea. Such felicity seems above all priceГўВҖВ”as
a thing impossible and unattainable. But would you believe that I
purchase all this delight, joy, and happiness, for which I would
cheerfully have surrendered ten years of my life, at the small cost of
500 francs per annum, paid quarterly? Henceforth we have nothing to
fear. I am on my own ground, and have an undoubted right to place a
ladder against the wall, and to look over when I please, without having
any apprehensions of being taken off by the police as a suspicious
character. I may also enjoy the precious privilege of assuring you of
my fond, faithful, and unalterable affection, whenever you visit your
favorite bower, unless, indeed, it offends your pride to listen to
professions of love from the lips of a poor workingman, clad in a
blouse and cap.ГўВҖВқ

A faint cry of mingled pleasure and surprise escaped from the lips of
Valentine, who almost instantly said, in a saddened tone, as though
some envious cloud darkened the joy which illumined her heart:

ГўВҖВңAlas, no, Maximilian, this must not be, for many reasons. We should
presume too much on our own strength, and, like others, perhaps, be led
astray by our blind confidence in each otherГўВҖВҷs prudence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow can you for an instant entertain so unworthy a thought, dear
Valentine? Have I not, from the first blessed hour of our acquaintance,
schooled all my words and actions to your sentiments and ideas? And you
have, I am sure, the fullest confidence in my honor. When you spoke to
me of experiencing a vague and indefinite sense of coming danger, I
placed myself blindly and devotedly at your service, asking no other
reward than the pleasure of being useful to you; and have I ever since,
by word or look, given you cause of regret for having selected me from
the numbers that would willingly have sacrificed their lives for you?
You told me, my dear Valentine, that you were engaged to M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay,
and that your father was resolved upon completing the match, and that
from his will there was no appeal, as M. de Villefort was never known
to change a determination once formed. I kept in the background, as you
wished, and waited, not for the decision of your heart or my own, but
hoping that Providence would graciously interpose in our behalf, and
order events in our favor. But what cared I for delays or difficulties,
Valentine, as long as you confessed that you loved me, and took pity on
me? If you will only repeat that avowal now and then, I can endure
anything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, Maximilian, that is the very thing that makes you so bold, and
which renders me at once so happy and unhappy, that I frequently ask
myself whether it is better for me to endure the harshness of my
stepmother, and her blind preference for her own child, or to be, as I
now am, insensible to any pleasure save such as I find in these
meetings, so fraught with danger to both.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will not admit that word,ГўВҖВқ returned the young man; ГўВҖВңit is at once
cruel and unjust. Is it possible to find a more submissive slave than
myself? You have permitted me to converse with you from time to time,
Valentine, but forbidden my ever following you in your walks or
elsewhereГўВҖВ”have I not obeyed? And since I found means to enter this
enclosure to exchange a few words with you through this gateГўВҖВ”to be
close to you without really seeing youГўВҖВ”have I ever asked so much as to
touch the hem of your gown or tried to pass this barrier which is but a
trifle to one of my youth and strength? Never has a complaint or a
murmur escaped me. I have been bound by my promises as rigidly as any
knight of olden times. Come, come, dearest Valentine, confess that what
I say is true, lest I be tempted to call you unjust.ГўВҖВқ

30055m



ГўВҖВңIt is true,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, as she passed the end of her slender
fingers through a small opening in the planks, and permitted Maximilian
to press his lips to them, ГўВҖВңand you are a true and faithful friend; but
still you acted from motives of self-interest, my dear Maximilian, for
you well knew that from the moment in which you had manifested an
opposite spirit all would have been ended between us. You promised to
bestow on me the friendly affection of a brother. For I have no friend
but yourself upon earth, who am neglected and forgotten by my father,
harassed and persecuted by my stepmother, and left to the sole
companionship of a paralyzed and speechless old man, whose withered
hand can no longer press mine, and who can speak to me with the eye
alone, although there still lingers in his heart the warmest tenderness
for his poor grandchild. Oh, how bitter a fate is mine, to serve either
as a victim or an enemy to all who are stronger than myself, while my
only friend and supporter is a living corpse! Indeed, indeed,
Maximilian, I am very miserable, and if you love me it must be out of
pity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, deeply affected, ГўВҖВңI will not say
you are all I love in the world, for I dearly prize my sister and
brother-in-law; but my affection for them is calm and tranquil, in no
manner resembling what I feel for you. When I think of you my heart
beats fast, the blood burns in my veins, and I can hardly breathe; but
I solemnly promise you to restrain all this ardor, this fervor and
intensity of feeling, until you yourself shall require me to render
them available in serving or assisting you. M. Franz is not expected to
return home for a year to come, I am told; in that time many favorable
and unforeseen chances may befriend us. Let us, then, hope for the
best; hope is so sweet a comforter. Meanwhile, Valentine, while
reproaching me with selfishness, think a little what you have been to
meГўВҖВ”the beautiful but cold resemblance of a marble Venus. What promise
of future reward have you made me for all the submission and obedience
I have evinced?ГўВҖВ”none whatever. What granted me?ГўВҖВ”scarcely more. You tell
me of M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, your betrothed lover, and you shrink from the
idea of being his wife; but tell me, Valentine, is there no other
sorrow in your heart? You see me devoted to you, body and soul, my life
and each warm drop that circles round my heart are consecrated to your
service; you know full well that my existence is bound up in yoursГўВҖВ”that
were I to lose you I would not outlive the hour of such crushing
misery; yet you speak with calmness of the prospect of your being the
wife of another! Oh, Valentine, were I in your place, and did I feel
conscious, as you do, of being worshipped, adored, with such a love as
mine, a hundred times at least should I have passed my hand between
these iron bars, and said, ГўВҖВҳTake this hand, dearest Maximilian, and
believe that, living or dead, I am yoursГўВҖВ”yours only, and forever!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

The poor girl made no reply, but her lover could plainly hear her sobs
and tears. A rapid change took place in the young manГўВҖВҷs feelings.

ГўВҖВңDearest, dearest Valentine,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed he, ГўВҖВңforgive me if I have
offended you, and forget the words I spoke if they have unwittingly
caused you pain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, Maximilian, I am not offended,ГўВҖВқ answered she, ГўВҖВңbut do you not see
what a poor, helpless being I am, almost a stranger and an outcast in
my fatherГўВҖВҷs house, where even he is seldom seen; whose will has been
thwarted, and spirits broken, from the age of ten years, beneath the
iron rod so sternly held over me; oppressed, mortified, and persecuted,
day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute, no person has cared for,
even observed my sufferings, nor have I ever breathed one word on the
subject save to yourself. Outwardly and in the eyes of the world, I am
surrounded by kindness and affection; but the reverse is the case. The
general remark is, ГўВҖВҳOh, it cannot be expected that one of so stern a
character as M. Villefort could lavish the tenderness some fathers do
on their daughters. What though she has lost her own mother at a tender
age, she has had the happiness to find a second mother in Madame de
Villefort.ГўВҖВҷ The world, however, is mistaken; my father abandons me from
utter indifference, while my stepmother detests me with a hatred so
much the more terrible because it is veiled beneath a continual smile.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHate you, sweet Valentine,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young man; ГўВҖВңhow is it
possible for anyone to do that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ replied the weeping girl, ГўВҖВңI am obliged to own that my
stepmotherГўВҖВҷs aversion to me arises from a very natural sourceГўВҖВ”her
overweening love for her own child, my brother Edward.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut why should it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know; but, though unwilling to introduce money matters into
our present conversation, I will just say this muchГўВҖВ”that her extreme
dislike to me has its origin there; and I much fear she envies me the
fortune I enjoy in right of my mother, and which will be more than
doubled at the death of M. and Mme. de Saint-MГғВ©ran, whose sole heiress
I am. Madame de Villefort has nothing of her own, and hates me for
being so richly endowed. Alas, how gladly would I exchange the half of
this wealth for the happiness of at least sharing my fatherГўВҖВҷs love. God
knows, I would prefer sacrificing the whole, so that it would obtain me
a happy and affectionate home.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor Valentine!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI seem to myself as though living a life of bondage, yet at the same
time am so conscious of my own weakness that I fear to break the
restraint in which I am held, lest I fall utterly helpless. Then, too,
my father is not a person whose orders may be infringed with impunity;
protected as he is by his high position and firmly established
reputation for talent and unswerving integrity, no one could oppose
him; he is all-powerful even with the king; he would crush you at a
word. Dear Maximilian, believe me when I assure you that if I do not
attempt to resist my fatherГўВҖВҷs commands it is more on your account than
my own.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut why, Valentine, do you persist in anticipating the worst,ГўВҖВ”why
picture so gloomy a future?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I judge it from the past.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, consider that although I may not be, strictly speaking, what is
termed an illustrious match for you, I am, for many reasons, not
altogether so much beneath your alliance. The days when such
distinctions were so nicely weighed and considered no longer exist in
France, and the first families of the monarchy have intermarried with
those of the empire. The aristocracy of the lance has allied itself
with the nobility of the cannon. Now I belong to this last-named class;
and certainly my prospects of military preferment are most encouraging
as well as certain. My fortune, though small, is free and unfettered,
and the memory of my late father is respected in our country,
Valentine, as that of the most upright and honorable merchant of the
city; I say our country, because you were born not far from
Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt speak of Marseilles, I beg of you, Maximilian; that one word
brings back my mother to my recollectionГўВҖВ”my angel mother, who died too
soon for myself and all who knew her; but who, after watching over her
child during the brief period allotted to her in this world, now, I
fondly hope, watches from her home in heaven. Oh, if my mother were
still living, there would be nothing to fear, Maximilian, for I would
tell her that I loved you, and she would protect us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI fear, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ replied the lover, ГўВҖВңthat were she living I should
never have had the happiness of knowing you; you would then have been
too happy to have stooped from your grandeur to bestow a thought on
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow it is you who are unjust, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine; ГўВҖВңbut there
is one thing I wish to know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is that?ГўВҖВқ inquired the young man, perceiving that Valentine
hesitated.

ГўВҖВңTell me truly, Maximilian, whether in former days, when our fathers
dwelt at Marseilles, there was ever any misunderstanding between them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot that I am aware of,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, ГўВҖВңunless, indeed, any
ill-feeling might have arisen from their being of opposite partiesГўВҖВ”your
father was, as you know, a zealous partisan of the Bourbons, while mine
was wholly devoted to the emperor; there could not possibly be any
other difference between them. But why do you ask?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will tell you,ГўВҖВқ replied the young girl, ГўВҖВңfor it is but right you
should know. Well, on the day when your appointment as an officer of
the Legion of Honor was announced in the papers, we were all sitting
with my grandfather, M. Noirtier; M. Danglars was there alsoГўВҖВ”you
recollect M. Danglars, do you not, Maximilian, the banker, whose horses
ran away with my stepmother and little brother, and very nearly killed
them? While the rest of the company were discussing the approaching
marriage of Mademoiselle Danglars, I was reading the paper to my
grandfather; but when I came to the paragraph about you, although I had
done nothing else but read it over to myself all the morning (you know
you had told me all about it the previous evening), I felt so happy,
and yet so nervous, at the idea of speaking your name aloud, and before
so many people, that I really think I should have passed it over, but
for the fear that my doing so might create suspicions as to the cause
of my silence; so I summoned up all my courage, and read it as firmly
and as steadily as I could.ГўВҖВқ

30059m



ГўВҖВңDear Valentine!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, would you believe it? directly my father caught the sound of
your name he turned round quite hastily, and, like a poor silly thing,
I was so persuaded that everyone must be as much affected as myself by
the utterance of your name, that I was not surprised to see my father
start, and almost tremble; but I even thought (though that surely must
have been a mistake) that M. Danglars trembled too.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMorrel, Morrel,ГўВҖВҷ cried my father, ГўВҖВҳstop a bit;ГўВҖВҷ then knitting his
brows into a deep frown, he added, ГўВҖВҳsurely this cannot be one of the
Morrel family who lived at Marseilles, and gave us so much trouble from
their violent BonapartismГўВҖВ”I mean about the year 1815.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ replied M. Danglars, ГўВҖВҳI believe he is the son of the old
shipowner.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ answered Maximilian; ГўВҖВңand what did your father say then,
Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, such a dreadful thing, that I donГўВҖВҷt dare to tell you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlways tell me everything,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian with a smile.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAh,ГўВҖВҷ continued my father, still frowning, ГўВҖВҳtheir idolized emperor
treated these madmen as they deserved; he called them ГўВҖВҳfood for
cannon,ГўВҖВҷ which was precisely all they were good for; and I am delighted
to see that the present government have adopted this salutary principle
with all its pristine vigor; if Algiers were good for nothing but to
furnish the means of carrying so admirable an idea into practice, it
would be an acquisition well worthy of struggling to obtain. Though it
certainly does cost France somewhat dear to assert her rights in that
uncivilized country.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBrutal politics, I must confess.ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian; ГўВҖВңbut donГўВҖВҷt attach
any serious importance, dear, to what your father said. My father was
not a bit behind yours in that sort of talk. ГўВҖВҳWhy,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳdoes not
the emperor, who has devised so many clever and efficient modes of
improving the art of war, organize a regiment of lawyers, judges and
legal practitioners, sending them in the hottest fire the enemy could
maintain, and using them to save better men?ГўВҖВҷ You see, my dear, that
for picturesque expression and generosity of spirit there is not much
to choose between the language of either party. But what did M.
Danglars say to this outburst on the part of the procureur?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, he laughed, and in that singular manner so peculiar to
himselfГўВҖВ”half-malicious, half-ferocious; he almost immediately got up
and took his leave; then, for the first time, I observed the agitation
of my grandfather, and I must tell you, Maximilian, that I am the only
person capable of discerning emotion in his paralyzed frame. And I
suspected that the conversation that had been carried on in his
presence (for they always say and do what they like before the dear old
man, without the smallest regard for his feelings) had made a strong
impression on his mind; for, naturally enough, it must have pained him
to hear the emperor he so devotedly loved and served spoken of in that
depreciating manner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe name of M. Noirtier,ГўВҖВқ interposed Maximilian, ГўВҖВңis celebrated
throughout Europe; he was a statesman of high standing, and you may or
may not know, Valentine, that he took a leading part in every
Bonapartist conspiracy set on foot during the restoration of the
Bourbons.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I have often heard whispers of things that seem to me most
strangeГўВҖВ”the father a Bonapartist, the son a Royalist; what can have
been the reason of so singular a difference in parties and politics?
But to resume my story; I turned towards my grandfather, as though to
question him as to the cause of his emotion; he looked expressively at
the newspaper I had been reading. ГўВҖВҳWhat is the matter, dear
grandfather?ГўВҖВҷ said I, ГўВҖВҳare you pleased?ГўВҖВҷ He gave me a sign in the
affirmative. ГўВҖВҳWith what my father said just now?ГўВҖВҷ He returned a sign in
the negative. ГўВҖВҳPerhaps you liked what M. Danglars said?ГўВҖВҷ Another sign
in the negative. ГўВҖВҳOh, then, you were glad to hear that M. Morrel (I
didnГўВҖВҷt dare to say Maximilian) had been made an officer of the Legion
of Honor?ГўВҖВҷ He signified assent; only think of the poor old manГўВҖВҷs being
so pleased to think that you, who were a perfect stranger to him, had
been made an officer of the Legion of Honor! Perhaps it was a mere whim
on his part, for he is falling, they say, into second childhood, but I
love him for showing so much interest in you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow singular,ГўВҖВқ murmured Maximilian; ГўВҖВңyour father hates me, while your
grandfather, on the contraryГўВҖВ”What strange feelings are aroused by
politics.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush,ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine, suddenly; ГўВҖВңsomeone is coming!ГўВҖВқ Maximilian
leaped at one bound into his crop of lucern, which he began to pull up
in the most ruthless way, under the pretext of being occupied in
weeding it.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle, mademoiselle!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed a voice from behind the trees.
ГўВҖВңMadame is searching for you everywhere; there is a visitor in the
drawing-room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA visitor?ГўВҖВқ inquired Valentine, much agitated; ГўВҖВңwho is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSome grand personageГўВҖВ”a prince I believe they saidГўВҖВ”the Count of Monte
Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will come directly,ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine aloud.

The name of Monte Cristo sent an electric shock through the young man
on the other side of the iron gate, to whom ValentineГўВҖВҷs _ГўВҖВңI am comingГўВҖВқ_
was the customary signal of farewell.

ГўВҖВңNow, then,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, leaning on the handle of his spade, ГўВҖВңI
would give a good deal to know how it comes about that the Count of
Monte Cristo is acquainted with M. de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 52. Toxicology

It was really the Count of Monte Cristo who had just arrived at Madame
de VillefortГўВҖВҷs for the purpose of returning the procureurГўВҖВҷs visit, and
at his name, as may be easily imagined, the whole house was in
confusion.

Madame de Villefort, who was alone in her drawing-room when the count
was announced, desired that her son might be brought thither instantly
to renew his thanks to the count; and Edward, who heard this great
personage talked of for two whole days, made all possible haste to come
to him, not from obedience to his mother, or out of any feeling of
gratitude to the count, but from sheer curiosity, and that some chance
remark might give him the opportunity for making one of the impertinent
speeches which made his mother say:

ГўВҖВңOh, that naughty child! But I canГўВҖВҷt be severe with him, he is really
_so_ bright.ГўВҖВқ

After the usual civilities, the count inquired after M. de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңMy husband dines with the chancellor,ГўВҖВқ replied the young lady; ГўВҖВңhe has
just gone, and I am sure heГўВҖВҷll be exceedingly sorry not to have had the
pleasure of seeing you before he went.ГўВҖВқ

Two visitors who were there when the count arrived, having gazed at him
with all their eyes, retired after that reasonable delay which
politeness admits and curiosity requires.

ГўВҖВңWhat is your sister Valentine doing?ГўВҖВқ inquired Madame de Villefort of
Edward; ГўВҖВңtell someone to bid her come here, that I may have the honor
of introducing her to the count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have a daughter, then, madame?ГўВҖВқ inquired the count; ГўВҖВңvery young, I
presume?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe daughter of M. de Villefort by his first marriage,ГўВҖВқ replied the
young wife, ГўВҖВңa fine well-grown girl.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut melancholy,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Master Edward, snatching the feathers out
of the tail of a splendid paroquet that was screaming on its gilded
perch, in order to make a plume for his hat.

Madame de Villefort merely cried, ГўВҖВңBe still, Edward!ГўВҖВқ She then added,
ГўВҖВңThis young madcap is, however, very nearly right, and merely re-echoes
what he has heard me say with pain a hundred times; for Mademoiselle de
Villefort is, in spite of all we can do to rouse her, of a melancholy
disposition and taciturn habit, which frequently injure the effect of
her beauty. But what detains her? Go, Edward, and see.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause they are looking for her where she is not to be found.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where are they looking for her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith grandpapa Noirtier.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you think she is not there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, no, no, no, she is not there,ГўВҖВқ replied Edward, singing his
words.

ГўВҖВңAnd where is she, then? If you know, why donГўВҖВҷt you tell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe is under the big chestnut-tree,ГўВҖВқ replied the spoiled brat, as he
gave, in spite of his motherГўВҖВҷs commands, live flies to the parrot,
which seemed keenly to relish such fare.

Madame de Villefort stretched out her hand to ring, intending to direct
her waiting-maid to the spot where she would find Valentine, when the
young lady herself entered the apartment. She appeared much dejected;
and any person who considered her attentively might have observed the
traces of recent tears in her eyes.

Valentine, whom we have in the rapid march of our narrative presented
to our readers without formally introducing her, was a tall and
graceful girl of nineteen, with bright chestnut hair, deep blue eyes,
and that reposeful air of quiet distinction which characterized her
mother. Her white and slender fingers, her pearly neck, her cheeks
tinted with varying hues reminded one of the lovely Englishwomen who
have been so poetically compared in their manner to the gracefulness of
a swan.

She entered the apartment, and seeing near her stepmother the stranger
of whom she had already heard so much, saluted him without any girlish
awkwardness, or even lowering her eyes, and with an elegance that
redoubled the countГўВҖВҷs attention.

He rose to return the salutation.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle de Villefort, my step-daughter,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort
to Monte Cristo, leaning back on her sofa and motioning towards
Valentine with her hand.

ГўВҖВңAnd M. de Monte Cristo, King of China, Emperor of Cochin-China,ГўВҖВқ said
the young imp, looking slyly towards his sister.

Madame de Villefort at this really did turn pale, and was very nearly
angry with this household plague, who answered to the name of Edward;
but the count, on the contrary, smiled, and appeared to look at the boy
complacently, which caused the maternal heart to bound again with joy
and enthusiasm.

ГўВҖВңBut, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, continuing the conversation, and
looking by turns at Madame de Villefort and Valentine, ГўВҖВңhave I not
already had the honor of meeting yourself and mademoiselle before? I
could not help thinking so just now; the idea came over my mind, and as
mademoiselle entered the sight of her was an additional ray of light
thrown on a confused remembrance; excuse the remark.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not think it likely, sir; Mademoiselle de Villefort is not very
fond of society, and we very seldom go out,ГўВҖВқ said the young lady.

ГўВҖВңThen it was not in society that I met with mademoiselle or yourself,
madame, or this charming little merry boy. Besides, the Parisian world
is entirely unknown to me, for, as I believe I told you, I have been in
Paris but very few days. No,ГўВҖВ”but, perhaps, you will permit me to call
to mindГўВҖВ”stay!ГўВҖВқ

The Count placed his hand on his brow as if to collect his thoughts.

ГўВҖВңNoГўВҖВ”it was somewhereГўВҖВ”away from hereГўВҖВ”it wasГўВҖВ”I do not knowГўВҖВ”but it appears
that this recollection is connected with a lovely sky and some
religious _fГғВӘte_; mademoiselle was holding flowers in her hand, the
interesting boy was chasing a beautiful peacock in a garden, and you,
madame, were under the trellis of some arbor. Pray come to my aid,
madame; do not these circumstances appeal to your memory?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, indeed,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңand yet it appears to me,
sir, that if I had met you anywhere, the recollection of you must have
been imprinted on my memory.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps the count saw us in Italy,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine timidly.

ГўВҖВңYes, in Italy; it was in Italy most probably,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo;
ГўВҖВңyou have travelled then in Italy, mademoiselle?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; madame and I were there two years ago. The doctors, anxious for
my lungs, had prescribed the air of Naples. We went by Bologna,
Perugia, and Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yesГўВҖВ”true, mademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Monte Cristo as if this simple
explanation was sufficient to revive the recollection he sought. ГўВҖВңIt
was at Perugia on Corpus Christi Day, in the garden of the HГғВҙtel des
Postes, when chance brought us together; you, Madame de Villefort, and
her son; I now remember having had the honor of meeting you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI perfectly well remember Perugia, sir, and the HГғВҙtel des Postes, and
the festival of which you speak,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңbut in
vain do I tax my memory, of whose treachery I am ashamed, for I really
do not recall to mind that I ever had the pleasure of seeing you
before.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is strange, but neither do I recollect meeting with you,ГўВҖВқ observed
Valentine, raising her beautiful eyes to the count.

30065m



ГўВҖВңBut I remember it perfectly,ГўВҖВқ interposed the darling Edward.

ГўВҖВңI will assist your memory, madame,ГўВҖВқ continued the count; ГўВҖВңthe day had
been burning hot; you were waiting for horses, which were delayed in
consequence of the festival. Mademoiselle was walking in the shade of
the garden, and your son disappeared in pursuit of the peacock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I caught it, mamma, donГўВҖВҷt you remember?ГўВҖВқ interposed Edward, ГўВҖВңand I
pulled three such beautiful feathers out of his tail.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou, madame, remained under the arbor; do you not remember, that while
you were seated on a stone bench, and while, as I told you,
Mademoiselle de Villefort and your young son were absent, you conversed
for a considerable time with somebody?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, in truth, yes,ГўВҖВқ answered the young lady, turning very red, ГўВҖВңI do
remember conversing with a person wrapped in a long woollen mantle; he
was a medical man, I think.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely so, madame; this man was myself; for a fortnight I had been
at that hotel, during which period I had cured my valet de chambre of a
fever, and my landlord of the jaundice, so that I really acquired a
reputation as a skilful physician. We discoursed a long time, madame,
on different subjects; of Perugino, of Raphael, of manners, customs, of
the famous _aqua Tofana_, of which they had told you, I think you said,
that certain individuals in Perugia had preserved the secret.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, true,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame de Villefort, somewhat uneasily, ГўВҖВңI
remember now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not recollect now all the various subjects of which we
discoursed, madame,ГўВҖВқ continued the count with perfect calmness; ГўВҖВңbut I
perfectly remember that, falling into the error which others had
entertained respecting me, you consulted me as to the health of
Mademoiselle de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, really, sir, you were in fact a medical man,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de
Villefort, ГўВҖВңsince you had cured the sick.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMoliГғВЁre or Beaumarchais would reply to you, madame, that it was
precisely because I was not, that I had cured my patients; for myself,
I am content to say to you that I have studied chemistry and the
natural sciences somewhat deeply, but still only as an amateur, you
understand.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment the clock struck six.

ГўВҖВңIt is six oГўВҖВҷclock,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, evidently agitated.
ГўВҖВңValentine, will you not go and see if your grandpapa will have his
dinner?ГўВҖВқ

Valentine rose, and saluting the count, left the apartment without
speaking.

ГўВҖВңOh, madame,ГўВҖВқ said the count, when Valentine had left the room, ГўВҖВңwas it
on my account that you sent Mademoiselle de Villefort away?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy no means,ГўВҖВқ replied the young lady quickly; ГўВҖВңbut this is the hour
when we usually give M. Noirtier the unwelcome meal that sustains his
pitiful existence. You are aware, sir, of the deplorable condition of
my husbandГўВҖВҷs father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, madame, M. de Villefort spoke of it to meГўВҖВ”a paralysis, I think.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, yes; the poor old gentleman is entirely helpless; the mind alone
is still active in this human machine, and that is faint and
flickering, like the light of a lamp about to expire. But excuse me,
sir, for talking of our domestic misfortunes; I interrupted you at the
moment when you were telling me that you were a skilful chemist.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, madame, I did not say as much as that,ГўВҖВқ replied the count with a
smile; ГўВҖВңquite the contrary. I have studied chemistry because, having
determined to live in eastern climates I have been desirous of
following the example of King Mithridates.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Mithridates, rex Ponticus_,ГўВҖВқ said the young scamp, as he tore some
beautiful portraits out of a splendid album, ГўВҖВңthe individual who took
cream in his cup of poison every morning at breakfast.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEdward, you naughty boy,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Madame de Villefort, snatching the
mutilated book from the urchinГўВҖВҷs grasp, ГўВҖВңyou are positively past
bearing; you really disturb the conversation; go, leave us, and join
your sister Valentine in dear grandpapa NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe album,ГўВҖВқ said Edward sulkily.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВ”the album!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI want the album.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow dare you tear out the drawings?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it amuses me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGoГўВҖВ”go at once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI wonГўВҖВҷt go unless you give me the album,ГўВҖВқ said the boy, seating
himself doggedly in an armchair, according to his habit of never giving
way.

ГўВҖВңTake it, then, and pray disturb us no longer,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de
Villefort, giving the album to Edward, who then went towards the door,
led by his mother. The count followed her with his eyes.

ГўВҖВңLet us see if she shuts the door after him,ГўВҖВқ he muttered.

Madame de Villefort closed the door carefully after the child, the
count appearing not to notice her; then casting a scrutinizing glance
around the chamber, the young wife returned to her chair, in which she
seated herself.

ГўВҖВңAllow me to observe, madame,ГўВҖВқ said the count, with that kind tone he
could assume so well, ГўВҖВңyou are really very severe with that dear clever
child.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, sometimes severity is quite necessary,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame de
Villefort, with all a motherГўВҖВҷs real firmness.

ГўВҖВңIt was his Cornelius Nepos that Master Edward was repeating when he
referred to King Mithridates,ГўВҖВқ continued the count, ГўВҖВңand you
interrupted him in a quotation which proves that his tutor has by no
means neglected him, for your son is really advanced for his years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe fact is, count,ГўВҖВқ answered the mother, agreeably flattered, ГўВҖВңhe has
great aptitude, and learns all that is set before him. He has but one
fault, he is somewhat wilful; but really, on referring for the moment
to what he said, do you truly believe that Mithridates used these
precautions, and that these precautions were efficacious?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think so, madame, because I myself have made use of them, that I
might not be poisoned at Naples, at Palermo, and at SmyrnaГўВҖВ”that is to
say, on three several occasions when, but for these precautions, I must
have lost my life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd your precautions were successful?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCompletely so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I remember now your mentioning to me at Perugia something of this
sort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said the count with an air of surprise, remarkably well
counterfeited; ГўВҖВңI really did not remember.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI inquired of you if poisons acted equally, and with the same effect,
on men of the North as on men of the South; and you answered me that
the cold and sluggish habits of the North did not present the same
aptitude as the rich and energetic temperaments of the natives of the
South.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd that is the case,ГўВҖВқ observed Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңI have seen Russians
devour, without being visibly inconvenienced, vegetable substances
which would infallibly have killed a Neapolitan or an Arab.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you really believe the result would be still more sure with us
than in the East, and in the midst of our fogs and rains a man would
habituate himself more easily than in a warm latitude to this
progressive absorption of poison?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; it being at the same time perfectly understood that he
should have been duly fortified against the poison to which he had not
been accustomed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I understand that; and how would you habituate yourself, for
instance, or rather, how did you habituate yourself to it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, very easily. Suppose you knew beforehand the poison that would be
made use of against you; suppose the poison was, for instance,
brucineГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBrucine is extracted from the false angostura8 is it not?ГўВҖВқ inquired
Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңPrecisely, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut I perceive I have not
much to teach you. Allow me to compliment you on your knowledge; such
learning is very rare among ladies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I am aware of that,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңbut I have a
passion for the occult sciences, which speak to the imagination like
poetry, and are reducible to figures, like an algebraic equation; but
go on, I beg of you; what you say interests me to the greatest degree.ГўВҖВқ

30069m



ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңsuppose, then, that this poison was
brucine, and you were to take a milligramme the first day, two
milligrammes the second day, and so on. Well, at the end of ten days
you would have taken a centigramme, at the end of twenty days,
increasing another milligramme, you would have taken three hundred
centigrammes; that is to say, a dose which you would support without
inconvenience, and which would be very dangerous for any other person
who had not taken the same precautions as yourself. Well, then, at the
end of a month, when drinking water from the same carafe, you would
kill the person who drank with you, without your perceiving, otherwise
than from slight inconvenience, that there was any poisonous substance
mingled with this water.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know any other counter-poisons?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have often read, and read again, the history of Mithridates,ГўВҖВқ said
Madame de Villefort in a tone of reflection, ГўВҖВңand had always considered
it a fable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, madame, contrary to most history, it is true; but what you tell
me, madame, what you inquire of me, is not the result of a chance
query, for two years ago you asked me the same questions, and said
then, that for a very long time this history of Mithridates had
occupied your mind.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, sir. The two favorite studies of my youth were botany and
mineralogy, and subsequently, when I learned that the use of simples
frequently explained the whole history of a people, and the entire life
of individuals in the East, as flowers betoken and symbolize a love
affair, I have regretted that I was not a man, that I might have been a
Flamel, a Fontana, or a Cabanis.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the more, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңas the Orientals do not
confine themselves, as did Mithridates, to make a cuirass of his
poisons, but they also made them a dagger. Science becomes, in their
hands, not only a defensive weapon, but still more frequently an
offensive one; the one serves against all their physical sufferings,
the other against all their enemies. With opium, belladonna, brucea,
snake-wood, and the cherry-laurel, they put to sleep all who stand in
their way. There is not one of those women, Egyptian, Turkish, or
Greek, whom here you call ГўВҖВҳgood women,ГўВҖВҷ who do not know how, by means
of chemistry, to stupefy a doctor, and in psychology to amaze a
confessor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, whose eyes sparkled with strange
fire at this conversation.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, indeed, madame,ГўВҖВқ continued Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthe secret dramas
of the East begin with a love philtre and end with a death potionГўВҖВ”begin
with paradise and end withГўВҖВ”hell. There are as many elixirs of every
kind as there are caprices and peculiarities in the physical and moral
nature of humanity; and I will say furtherГўВҖВ”the art of these chemists is
capable with the utmost precision to accommodate and proportion the
remedy and the bane to yearnings for love or desires for vengeance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, sir,ГўВҖВқ remarked the young woman, ГўВҖВңthese Eastern societies, in the
midst of which you have passed a portion of your existence, are as
fantastic as the tales that come from their strange land. A man can
easily be put out of the way there, then; it is, indeed, the Bagdad and
Bassora of the _Thousand and One Nights_. The sultans and viziers who
rule over society there, and who constitute what in France we call the
government, are really Haroun-al-Raschids and Giaffars, who not only
pardon a poisoner, but even make him a prime minister, if his crime has
been an ingenious one, and who, under such circumstances, have the
whole story written in letters of gold, to divert their hours of
idleness and _ennui_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy no means, madame; the fanciful exists no longer in the East. There,
disguised under other names, and concealed under other costumes, are
police agents, magistrates, attorneys-general, and bailiffs. They hang,
behead, and impale their criminals in the most agreeable possible
manner; but some of these, like clever rogues, have contrived to escape
human justice, and succeed in their fraudulent enterprises by cunning
stratagems. Amongst us a simpleton, possessed by the demon of hate or
cupidity, who has an enemy to destroy, or some near relation to dispose
of, goes straight to the grocerГўВҖВҷs or druggistГўВҖВҷs, gives a false name,
which leads more easily to his detection than his real one, and under
the pretext that the rats prevent him from sleeping, purchases five or
six grammes of arsenicГўВҖВ”if he is really a cunning fellow, he goes to
five or six different druggists or grocers, and thereby becomes only
five or six times more easily traced;ГўВҖВ”then, when he has acquired his
specific, he administers duly to his enemy, or near kinsman, a dose of
arsenic which would make a mammoth or mastodon burst, and which,
without rhyme or reason, makes his victim utter groans which alarm the
entire neighborhood. Then arrive a crowd of policemen and constables.
They fetch a doctor, who opens the dead body, and collects from the
entrails and stomach a quantity of arsenic in a spoon. Next day a
hundred newspapers relate the fact, with the names of the victim and
the murderer. The same evening the grocer or grocers, druggist or
druggists, come and say, ГўВҖВҳIt was I who sold the arsenic to the
gentleman;ГўВҖВҷ and rather than not recognize the guilty purchaser, they
will recognize twenty. Then the foolish criminal is taken, imprisoned,
interrogated, confronted, confounded, condemned, and cut off by hemp or
steel; or if she be a woman of any consideration, they lock her up for
life. This is the way in which you Northerns understand chemistry,
madame. Desrues was, however, I must confess, more skilful.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat would you have, sir?ГўВҖВқ said the lady, laughing; ГўВҖВңwe do what we
can. All the world has not the secret of the Medicis or the Borgias.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, shrugging his shoulders, ГўВҖВңshall I tell you
the cause of all these stupidities? It is because, at your theatres, by
what at least I could judge by reading the pieces they play, they see
persons swallow the contents of a phial, or suck the button of a ring,
and fall dead instantly. Five minutes afterwards the curtain falls, and
the spectators depart. They are ignorant of the consequences of the
murder; they see neither the police commissary with his badge of
office, nor the corporal with his four men; and so the poor fools
believe that the whole thing is as easy as lying. But go a little way
from FranceГўВҖВ”go either to Aleppo or Cairo, or only to Naples or Rome,
and you will see people passing by you in the streetsГўВҖВ”people erect,
smiling, and fresh-colored, of whom Asmodeus, if you were holding on by
the skirt of his mantle, would say, ГўВҖВҳThat man was poisoned three weeks
ago; he will be a dead man in a month.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ remarked Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңthey have again discovered the
secret of the famous _aqua Tofana_ that they said was lost at Perugia.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, but madame, does mankind ever lose anything? The arts change about
and make a tour of the world; things take a different name, and the
vulgar do not follow themГўВҖВ”that is all; but there is always the same
result. Poisons act particularly on some organ or anotherГўВҖВ”one on the
stomach, another on the brain, another on the intestines. Well, the
poison brings on a cough, the cough an inflammation of the lungs, or
some other complaint catalogued in the book of science, which, however,
by no means precludes it from being decidedly mortal; and if it were
not, would be sure to become so, thanks to the remedies applied by
foolish doctors, who are generally bad chemists, and which will act in
favor of or against the malady, as you please; and then there is a
human being killed according to all the rules of art and skill, and of
whom justice learns nothing, as was said by a terrible chemist of my
acquaintance, the worthy AbbГғВ© Adelmonte of Taormina, in Sicily, who has
studied these national phenomena very profoundly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is quite frightful, but deeply interesting,ГўВҖВқ said the young lady,
motionless with attention. ГўВҖВңI thought, I must confess, that these
tales, were inventions of the Middle Ages.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, no doubt, but improved upon by ours. What is the use of time,
rewards of merit, medals, crosses, Monthyon prizes, if they do not lead
society towards more complete perfection? Yet man will never be perfect
until he learns to create and destroy; he does know how to destroy, and
that is half the battle.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo,ГўВҖВқ added Madame de Villefort, constantly returning to her object,
ГўВҖВңthe poisons of the Borgias, the Medicis, the RenГғВ©es, the Ruggieris,
and later, probably, that of Baron de Trenck, whose story has been so
misused by modern drama and romanceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWere objects of art, madame, and nothing more,ГўВҖВқ replied the count. ГўВҖВңDo
you suppose that the real _savant_ addresses himself stupidly to the
mere individual? By no means. Science loves eccentricities, leaps and
bounds, trials of strength, fancies, if I may be allowed so to term
them. Thus, for instance, the excellent AbbГғВ© Adelmonte, of whom I spoke
just now, made in this way some marvellous experiments.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I will mention one to you. He had a remarkably fine garden, full
of vegetables, flowers, and fruit. From amongst these vegetables he
selected the most simpleГўВҖВ”a cabbage, for instance. For three days he
watered this cabbage with a distillation of arsenic; on the third, the
cabbage began to droop and turn yellow. At that moment he cut it. In
the eyes of everybody it seemed fit for table, and preserved its
wholesome appearance. It was only poisoned to the AbbГғВ© Adelmonte. He
then took the cabbage to the room where he had rabbitsГўВҖВ”for the AbbГғВ©
Adelmonte had a collection of rabbits, cats, and guinea-pigs, fully as
fine as his collection of vegetables, flowers, and fruit. Well, the
AbbГғВ© Adelmonte took a rabbit, and made it eat a leaf of the cabbage.
The rabbit died. What magistrate would find, or even venture to
insinuate, anything against this? What procureur has ever ventured to
draw up an accusation against M. Magendie or M. Flourens, in
consequence of the rabbits, cats, and guinea-pigs they have killed?ГўВҖВ”not
one. So, then, the rabbit dies, and justice takes no notice. This
rabbit dead, the AbbГғВ© Adelmonte has its entrails taken out by his cook
and thrown on the dunghill; on this dunghill is a hen, who, pecking
these intestines, is in her turn taken ill, and dies next day. At the
moment when she is struggling in the convulsions of death, a vulture is
flying by (there are a good many vultures in AdelmonteГўВҖВҷs country); this
bird darts on the dead fowl, and carries it away to a rock, where it
dines off its prey. Three days afterwards, this poor vulture, which has
been very much indisposed since that dinner, suddenly feels very giddy
while flying aloft in the clouds, and falls heavily into a fish-pond.
The pike, eels, and carp eat greedily always, as everybody knowsГўВҖВ”well,
they feast on the vulture. Now suppose that next day, one of these
eels, or pike, or carp, poisoned at the fourth remove, is served up at
your table. Well, then, your guest will be poisoned at the fifth
remove, and die, at the end of eight or ten days, of pains in the
intestines, sickness, or abscess of the pylorus. The doctors open the
body and say with an air of profound learning, ГўВҖВҳThe subject has died of
a tumor on the liver, or of typhoid fever!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ remarked Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңall these circumstances which you
link thus to one another may be broken by the least accident; the
vulture may not see the fowl, or may fall a hundred yards from the
fish-pond.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is where the art comes in. To be a great chemist in the East,
one must direct chance; and this is to be achieved.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort was in deep thought, yet listened attentively.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, suddenly, ГўВҖВңarsenic is indelible, indestructible;
in whatsoever way it is absorbed, it will be found again in the body of
the victim from the moment when it has been taken in sufficient
quantity to cause death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely so,ГўВҖВқ cried Monte CristoГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңprecisely so; and this is what I
said to my worthy Adelmonte. He reflected, smiled, and replied to me by
a Sicilian proverb, which I believe is also a French proverb, ГўВҖВҳMy son,
the world was not made in a dayГўВҖВ”but in seven. Return on Sunday.ГўВҖВҷ On the
Sunday following I did return to him. Instead of having watered his
cabbage with arsenic, he had watered it this time with a solution of
salts, having their basis in strychnine, _strychnos colubrina_, as the
learned term it. Now, the cabbage had not the slightest appearance of
disease in the world, and the rabbit had not the smallest distrust;
yet, five minutes afterwards, the rabbit was dead. The fowl pecked at
the rabbit, and the next day was a dead hen. This time we were the
vultures; so we opened the bird, and this time all special symptoms had
disappeared, there were only general symptoms. There was no peculiar
indication in any organГўВҖВ”an excitement of the nervous systemГўВҖВ”that was
it; a case of cerebral congestionГўВҖВ”nothing more. The fowl had not been
poisonedГўВҖВ”she had died of apoplexy. Apoplexy is a rare disease among
fowls, I believe, but very common among men.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort appeared more and more thoughtful.

ГўВҖВңIt is very fortunate,ГўВҖВқ she observed, ГўВҖВңthat such substances could only
be prepared by chemists; otherwise, all the world would be poisoning
each other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy chemists and persons who have a taste for chemistry,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo carelessly.

ГўВҖВңAnd then,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, endeavoring by a struggle, and
with effort, to get away from her thoughts, ГўВҖВңhowever skilfully it is
prepared, crime is always crime, and if it avoid human scrutiny, it
does not escape the eye of God. The Orientals are stronger than we are
in cases of conscience, and, very prudently, have no hellГўВҖВ”that is the
point.ГўВҖВқ

30075m



ГўВҖВңReally, madame, this is a scruple which naturally must occur to a pure
mind like yours, but which would easily yield before sound reasoning.
The bad side of human thought will always be defined by the paradox of
Jean Jacques Rousseau,ГўВҖВ”you remember,ГўВҖВ”the mandarin who is killed five
hundred leagues off by raising the tip of the finger. ManГўВҖВҷs whole life
passes in doing these things, and his intellect is exhausted by
reflecting on them. You will find very few persons who will go and
brutally thrust a knife in the heart of a fellow-creature, or will
administer to him, in order to remove him from the surface of the globe
on which we move with life and animation, that quantity of arsenic of
which we just now talked. Such a thing is really out of ruleГўВҖВ”eccentric
or stupid. To attain such a point, the blood must be heated to
thirty-six degrees, the pulse be, at least, at ninety, and the feelings
excited beyond the ordinary limit. But suppose one pass, as is
permissible in philology, from the word itself to its softened synonym,
then, instead of committing an ignoble assassination you make an
ГўВҖВҳelimination;ГўВҖВҷ you merely and simply remove from your path the
individual who is in your way, and that without shock or violence,
without the display of the sufferings which, in the case of becoming a
punishment, make a martyr of the victim, and a butcher, in every sense
of the word, of him who inflicts them. Then there will be no blood, no
groans, no convulsions, and above all, no consciousness of that horrid
and compromising moment of accomplishing the act,ГўВҖВ”then one escapes the
clutch of the human law, which says, ГўВҖВҳDo not disturb society!ГўВҖВҷ This is
the mode in which they manage these things, and succeed in Eastern
climes, where there are grave and phlegmatic persons who care very
little for the questions of time in conjunctures of importance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYet conscience remains,ГўВҖВқ remarked Madame de Villefort in an agitated
voice, and with a stifled sigh.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ answered Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңhappily, yes, conscience does remain; and
if it did not, how wretched we should be! After every action requiring
exertion, it is conscience that saves us, for it supplies us with a
thousand good excuses, of which we alone are judges; and these reasons,
howsoever excellent in producing sleep, would avail us but very little
before a tribunal, when we were tried for our lives. Thus Richard III.,
for instance, was marvellously served by his conscience after the
putting away of the two children of Edward IV.; in fact, he could say,
ГўВҖВҳThese two children of a cruel and persecuting king, who have inherited
the vices of their father, which I alone could perceive in their
juvenile propensitiesГўВҖВ”these two children are impediments in my way of
promoting the happiness of the English people, whose unhappiness they
(the children) would infallibly have caused.ГўВҖВҷ Thus was Lady Macbeth
served by her conscience, when she sought to give her son, and not her
husband (whatever Shakespeare may say), a throne. Ah, maternal love is
a great virtue, a powerful motiveГўВҖВ”so powerful that it excuses a
multitude of things, even if, after DuncanГўВҖВҷs death, Lady Macbeth had
been at all pricked by her conscience.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort listened with avidity to these appalling maxims and
horrible paradoxes, delivered by the count with that ironical
simplicity which was peculiar to him.

After a momentГўВҖВҷs silence, the lady inquired:

ГўВҖВңDo you know, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ she said, ГўВҖВңthat you are a very terrible
reasoner, and that you look at the world through a somewhat distempered
medium? Have you really measured the world by scrutinies, or through
alembics and crucibles? For you must indeed be a great chemist, and the
elixir you administered to my son, which recalled him to life almost
instantaneouslyГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

30077m



ГўВҖВңOh, do not place any reliance on that, madame; _one_ drop of that
elixir sufficed to recall life to a dying child, but three drops would
have impelled the blood into his lungs in such a way as to have
produced most violent palpitations; six would have suspended his
respiration, and caused syncope more serious than that in which he was;
ten would have destroyed him. You know, madame, how suddenly I snatched
him from those phials which he so imprudently touched?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it then so terrible a poison?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no! In the first place, let us agree that the word poison does not
exist, because in medicine use is made of the most violent poisons,
which become, according as they are employed, most salutary remedies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, then, is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA skilful preparation of my friendГўВҖВҷs the worthy AbbГғВ© Adelmonte, who
taught me the use of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ observed Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңit must be an admirable
anti-spasmodic.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerfect, madame, as you have seen,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңand I
frequently make use of itГўВҖВ”with all possible prudence though, be it
observed,ГўВҖВқ he added with a smile of intelligence.

ГўВҖВңMost assuredly,ГўВҖВқ responded Madame de Villefort in the same tone. ГўВҖВңAs
for me, so nervous, and so subject to fainting fits, I should require a
Doctor Adelmonte to invent for me some means of breathing freely and
tranquillizing my mind, in the fear I have of dying some fine day of
suffocation. In the meanwhile, as the thing is difficult to find in
France, and your abbГғВ© is not probably disposed to make a journey to
Paris on my account, I must continue to use Monsieur PlancheГўВҖВҷs
anti-spasmodics; and mint and HoffmanГўВҖВҷs drops are among my favorite
remedies. Here are some lozenges which I have made up on purpose; they
are compounded doubly strong.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo opened the tortoise-shell box, which the lady presented to
him, and inhaled the odor of the lozenges with the air of an amateur
who thoroughly appreciated their composition.

ГўВҖВңThey are indeed exquisite,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңbut as they are necessarily
submitted to the process of deglutitionГўВҖВ”a function which it is
frequently impossible for a fainting person to accomplishГўВҖВ”I prefer my
own specific.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUndoubtedly, and so should I prefer it, after the effects I have seen
produced; but of course it is a secret, and I am not so indiscreet as
to ask it of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, rising as he spokeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI am gallant enough to
offer it you.ГўВҖВқ

30079m



ГўВҖВңHow kind you are.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnly remember one thingГўВҖВ”a small dose is a remedy, a large one is
poison. One drop will restore life, as you have seen; five or six will
inevitably kill, and in a way the more terrible inasmuch as, poured
into a glass of wine, it would not in the slightest degree affect its
flavor. But I say no more, madame; it is really as if I were
prescribing for you.ГўВҖВқ

The clock struck half-past six, and a lady was announced, a friend of
Madame de Villefort, who came to dine with her.

ГўВҖВңIf I had had the honor of seeing you for the third or fourth time,
count, instead of only for the second,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңif I
had had the honor of being your friend, instead of only having the
happiness of being under an obligation to you, I should insist on
detaining you to dinner, and not allow myself to be daunted by a first
refusal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA thousand thanks, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңbut I have an
engagement which I cannot break. I have promised to escort to the
AcadГғВ©mie a Greek princess of my acquaintance who has never seen your
grand opera, and who relies on me to conduct her thither.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAdieu, then, sir, and do not forget the prescription.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, in truth, madame, to do that I must forget the hourГўВҖВҷs conversation
I have had with you, which is indeed impossible.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo bowed, and left the house. Madame de Villefort remained
immersed in thought.

ГўВҖВңHe is a very strange man,ГўВҖВқ she said, ГўВҖВңand in my opinion is himself the
Adelmonte he talks about.ГўВҖВқ

As to Monte Cristo the result had surpassed his utmost expectations.

ГўВҖВңGood,ГўВҖВқ said he, as he went away; ГўВҖВңthis is a fruitful soil, and I feel
certain that the seed sown will not be cast on barren ground.ГўВҖВқ

Next morning, faithful to his promise, he sent the prescription
requested.



 Chapter 53. Robert le Diable

The pretext of an opera engagement was so much the more feasible, as
there chanced to be on that very night a more than ordinary attraction
at the AcadГғВ©mie Royale. Levasseur, who had been suffering under severe
illness, made his reappearance in the character of _Bertram_, and, as
usual, the announcement of the most admired production of the favorite
composer of the day had attracted a brilliant and fashionable audience.
Morcerf, like most other young men of rank and fortune, had his
orchestra stall, with the certainty of always finding a seat in at
least a dozen of the principal boxes occupied by persons of his
acquaintance; he had, moreover, his right of entry into the omnibus
box. ChГғВўteau-Renaud rented a stall beside his own, while Beauchamp, as
a journalist, had unlimited range all over the theatre. It happened
that on this particular night the ministerГўВҖВҷs box was placed at the
disposal of Lucien Debray, who offered it to the Comte de Morcerf, who
again, upon his rejection of it by MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, sent it to Danglars, with
an intimation that he should probably do himself the honor of joining
the baroness and her daughter during the evening, in the event of their
accepting the box in question. The ladies received the offer with too
much pleasure to dream of a refusal. To no class of persons is the
presentation of a gratuitous opera-box more acceptable than to the
wealthy millionaire, who still hugs economy while boasting of carrying
a kingГўВҖВҷs ransom in his waistcoat pocket.

Danglars had, however, protested against showing himself in a
ministerial box, declaring that his political principles, and his
parliamentary position as member of the opposition party would not
permit him so to commit himself; the baroness had, therefore,
despatched a note to Lucien Debray, bidding him call for them, it being
wholly impossible for her to go alone with EugГғВ©nie to the opera.

There is no gainsaying the fact that a very unfavorable construction
would have been put upon the circumstance if the two women had gone
without escort, while the addition of a third, in the person of her
motherГўВҖВҷs admitted lover, enabled Mademoiselle Danglars to defy malice
and ill-nature. One must take the world as one finds it.

30083m



The curtain rose, as usual, to an almost empty house, it being one of
the absurdities of Parisian fashion never to appear at the opera until
after the beginning of the performance, so that the first act is
generally played without the slightest attention being paid to it, that
part of the audience already assembled being too much occupied in
observing the fresh arrivals, while nothing is heard but the noise of
opening and shutting doors, and the buzz of conversation.

ГўВҖВңSurely,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, as the door of a box on the first circle opened,
ГўВҖВңthat must be the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who is the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”?ГўВҖВқ inquired ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңWhat a question! Now, do you know, baron, I have a great mind to pick
a quarrel with you for asking it; as if all the world did not know who
the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ” was.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, to be sure,ГўВҖВқ replied ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңthe lovely Venetian, is it
not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHerself.ГўВҖВқ At this moment the countess perceived Albert, and returned
his salutation with a smile.

ГўВҖВңYou know her, it seems?ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңFranz introduced me to her at Rome,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, will you do as much for me in Paris as Franz did for you
in Rome?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith pleasure.ГўВҖВқ

There was a cry of ГўВҖВңShut up!ГўВҖВқ from the audience. This manifestation on
the part of the spectators of their wish to be allowed to hear the
music, produced not the slightest effect on the two young men, who
continued their conversation.

ГўВҖВңThe countess was present at the races in the Champ-de-Mars,ГўВҖВқ said
ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңToday?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBless me, I quite forgot the races. Did you bet?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, merely a paltry fifty louis.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who was the winner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNautilus. I staked on him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut there were three races, were there not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; there was the prize given by the Jockey ClubГўВҖВ”a gold cup, you
knowГўВҖВ”and a very singular circumstance occurred about that race.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, shut up!ГўВҖВқ again interposed some of the audience.

ГўВҖВңWhy, it was won by a horse and rider utterly unknown on the course.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs that possible?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue as day. The fact was, nobody had observed a horse entered by the
name of Vampa, or that of a jockey styled Job, when, at the last
moment, a splendid roan, mounted by a jockey about as big as your fist,
presented themselves at the starting-post. They were obliged to stuff
at least twenty pounds weight of shot in the small riderГўВҖВҷs pockets, to
make him weight; but with all that he outstripped Ariel and Barbare,
against whom he ran, by at least three whole lengths.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd was it not found out at last to whom the horse and jockey
belonged?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou say that the horse was entered under the name of Vampa?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly; that was the title.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ answered Albert, ГўВҖВңI am better informed than you are, and know
who the owner of that horse was.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShut up, there!ГўВҖВқ cried the pit in chorus. And this time the tone and
manner in which the command was given, betokened such growing hostility
that the two young men perceived, for the first time, that the mandate
was addressed to them. Leisurely turning round, they calmly scrutinized
the various countenances around them, as though demanding some one
person who would take upon himself the responsibility of what they
deemed excessive impertinence; but as no one responded to the
challenge, the friends turned again to the front of the theatre, and
affected to busy themselves with the stage. At this moment the door of
the ministerГўВҖВҷs box opened, and Madame Danglars, accompanied by her
daughter, entered, escorted by Lucien Debray, who assiduously conducted
them to their seats.

ГўВҖВңHa, ha,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңhere come some friends of yours,
viscount! What are you looking at there? donГўВҖВҷt you see they are trying
to catch your eye?ГўВҖВқ

Albert turned round, just in time to receive a gracious wave of the fan
from the baroness; as for Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie, she scarcely vouchsafed
to waste the glances of her large black eyes even upon the business of
the stage.

ГўВҖВңI tell you what, my dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңI cannot
imagine what objection you can possibly have to Mademoiselle
DanglarsГўВҖВ”that is, setting aside her want of ancestry and somewhat
inferior rank, which by the way I donГўВҖВҷt think you care very much about.
Now, barring all that, I mean to say she is a deuced fine girl!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHandsome, certainly,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңbut not to my taste, which I
confess, inclines to something softer, gentler, and more feminine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, well,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed ChГғВўteau-Renaud, who because he had seen his
thirtieth summer fancied himself duly warranted in assuming a sort of
paternal air with his more youthful friend, ГўВҖВңyou young people are never
satisfied; why, what would you have more? your parents have chosen you
a bride built on the model of Diana, the huntress, and yet you are not
content.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, for that very resemblance affrights me; I should have liked
something more in the manner of the Venus of Milo or Capua; but this
chase-loving Diana, continually surrounded by her nymphs, gives me a
sort of alarm lest she should some day bring on me the fate of ActГғВҰon.ГўВҖВқ

And, indeed, it required but one glance at Mademoiselle Danglars to
comprehend the justness of MorcerfГўВҖВҷs remark. She was beautiful, but her
beauty was of too marked and decided a character to please a fastidious
taste; her hair was raven black, but its natural waves seemed somewhat
rebellious; her eyes, of the same color as her hair, were surmounted by
well-arched brows, whose great defect, however, consisted in an almost
habitual frown, while her whole physiognomy wore that expression of
firmness and decision so little in accordance with the gentler
attributes of her sexГўВҖВ”her nose was precisely what a sculptor would have
chosen for a chiselled Juno. Her mouth, which might have been found
fault with as too large, displayed teeth of pearly whiteness, rendered
still more conspicuous by the brilliant carmine of her lips,
contrasting vividly with her naturally pale complexion. But that which
completed the almost masculine look Morcerf found so little to his
taste, was a dark mole, of much larger dimensions than these freaks of
nature generally are, placed just at the corner of her mouth; and the
effect tended to increase the expression of self-dependence that
characterized her countenance.

The rest of Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nieГўВҖВҷs person was in perfect keeping with
the head just described; she, indeed, reminded one of Diana, as
ChГғВўteau-Renaud observed, but her bearing was more haughty and resolute.

As regarded her attainments, the only fault to be found with them was
the same that a fastidious connoisseur might have found with her
beauty, that they were somewhat too erudite and masculine for so young
a person. She was a perfect linguist, a first-rate artist, wrote
poetry, and composed music; to the study of the latter she professed to
be entirely devoted, following it with an indefatigable perseverance,
assisted by a schoolfellow,ГўВҖВ”a young woman without fortune whose talent
promised to develop into remarkable powers as a singer. It was rumored
that she was an object of almost paternal interest to one of the
principal composers of the day, who excited her to spare no pains in
the cultivation of her voice, which might hereafter prove a source of
wealth and independence. But this counsel effectually decided
Mademoiselle Danglars never to commit herself by being seen in public
with one destined for a theatrical life; and acting upon this
principle, the bankerГўВҖВҷs daughter, though perfectly willing to allow
Mademoiselle Louise dГўВҖВҷArmilly (that was the name of the young virtuosa)
to practice with her through the day, took especial care not to be seen
in her company. Still, though not actually received at the HГғВҙtel
Danglars in the light of an acknowledged friend, Louise was treated
with far more kindness and consideration than is usually bestowed on a
governess.

The curtain fell almost immediately after the entrance of Madame
Danglars into her box, the band quitted the orchestra for the
accustomed half-hourГўВҖВҷs interval allowed between the acts, and the
audience were left at liberty to promenade the salon or lobbies, or to
pay and receive visits in their respective boxes.

Morcerf and ChГғВўteau-Renaud were amongst the first to avail themselves
of this permission. For an instant the idea struck Madame Danglars that
this eagerness on the part of the young viscount arose from his
impatience to join her party, and she whispered her expectations to her
daughter, that Albert was hurrying to pay his respects to them.
Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie, however, merely returned a dissenting movement of
the head, while, with a cold smile, she directed the attention of her
mother to an opposite box on the first circle, in which sat the
Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”, and where Morcerf had just made his appearance.

30087m



ГўВҖВңSo we meet again, my travelling friend, do we?ГўВҖВқ cried the countess,
extending her hand to him with all the warmth and cordiality of an old
acquaintance; ГўВҖВңit was really very good of you to recognize me so
quickly, and still more so to bestow your first visit on me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe assured,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңthat if I had been aware of your arrival
in Paris, and had known your address, I should have paid my respects to
you before this. Allow me to introduce my friend, Baron de
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, one of the few true gentlemen now to be found in
France, and from whom I have just learned that you were a spectator of
the races in the Champ-de-Mars, yesterday.ГўВҖВқ

ChГғВўteau-Renaud bowed to the countess.

ГўВҖВңSo you were at the races, baron?ГўВҖВқ inquired the countess eagerly.

ГўВҖВңYes, madame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ pursued Madame GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ” with considerable animation, ГўВҖВңyou can
probably tell me who won the Jockey Club stakes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am sorry to say I cannot,ГўВҖВқ replied the baron; ГўВҖВңand I was just asking
the same question of Albert.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you very anxious to know, countess?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert.

ГўВҖВңTo know what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe name of the owner of the winning horse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcessively; only imagineГўВҖВ”but do tell me, viscount, whether you really
are acquainted with it or no?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI beg your pardon, madame, but you were about to relate some story,
were you not? You said, ГўВҖВҳonly imagine,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”and then paused. Pray
continue.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, listen. You must know I felt so interested in the splendid
roan horse, with his elegant little rider, so tastefully dressed in a
pink satin jacket and cap, that I could not help praying for their
success with as much earnestness as though the half of my fortune were
at stake; and when I saw them outstrip all the others, and come to the
winning-post in such gallant style, I actually clapped my hands with
joy. Imagine my surprise, when, upon returning home, the first object I
met on the staircase was the identical jockey in the pink jacket! I
concluded that, by some singular chance, the owner of the winning horse
must live in the same hotel as myself; but, as I entered my apartments,
I beheld the very gold cup awarded as a prize to the unknown horse and
rider. Inside the cup was a small piece of paper, on which were written
these wordsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳFrom Lord Ruthven to Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely; I was sure of it,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңSure of what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat the owner of the horse was Lord Ruthven himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat Lord Ruthven do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, our Lord RuthvenГўВҖВ”the Vampire of the Salle Argentina!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the countess; ГўВҖВңis he here in Paris?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo be sure,ГўВҖВ”why not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you visit him?ГўВҖВ”meet him at your own house and elsewhere?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI assure you he is my most intimate friend, and M. de ChГғВўteau-Renaud
has also the honor of his acquaintance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut why are you so sure of his being the winner of the Jockey Club
prize?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas not the winning horse entered by the name of Vampa?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat of that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, do you not recollect the name of the celebrated bandit by whom I
was made prisoner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd from whose hands the count extricated me in so wonderful a
manner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo be sure, I remember it all now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe called himself Vampa. You see, itГўВҖВҷs evident where the count got the
name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what could have been his motive for sending the cup to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the first place, because I had spoken much of you to him, as you
may believe; and in the second, because he delighted to see a
countrywoman take so lively an interest in his success.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI trust and hope you never repeated to the count all the foolish
remarks we used to make about him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should not like to affirm upon oath that I have not. Besides, his
presenting you the cup under the name of Lord RuthvenГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, but that is dreadful! Why, the man must owe me a fearful grudge.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes his action appear like that of an enemy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; certainly not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, thenГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd so he is in Paris?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what effect does he produce?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңhe was talked about for a week; then the
coronation of the queen of England took place, followed by the theft of
Mademoiselle MarsГўВҖВҷs diamonds; and so people talked of something else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy good fellow,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңthe count is your friend and
you treat him accordingly. Do not believe what Albert is telling you,
countess; so far from the sensation excited in the Parisian circles by
the appearance of the Count of Monte Cristo having abated, I take upon
myself to declare that it is as strong as ever. His first astounding
act upon coming amongst us was to present a pair of horses, worth
32,000 francs, to Madame Danglars; his second, the almost miraculous
preservation of Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs life; now it seems that he has
carried off the prize awarded by the Jockey Club. I therefore maintain,
in spite of Morcerf, that not only is the count the object of interest
at this present moment, but also that he will continue to be so for a
month longer if he pleases to exhibit an eccentricity of conduct which,
after all, may be his ordinary mode of existence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps you are right,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf; ГўВҖВңmeanwhile, who is in the
Russian ambassadorГўВҖВҷs box?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich box do you mean?ГўВҖВқ asked the countess.

ГўВҖВңThe one between the pillars on the first tierГўВҖВ”it seems to have been
fitted up entirely afresh.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you observe anyone during the first act?ГўВҖВқ asked ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңWhere?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn that box.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied the countess, ГўВҖВңit was certainly empty during the first
act;ГўВҖВқ then, resuming the subject of their previous conversation, she
said, ГўВҖВңAnd so you really believe it was your mysterious Count of Monte
Cristo that gained the prize?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am sure of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who afterwards sent the cup to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUndoubtedly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I donГўВҖВҷt know him,ГўВҖВқ said the countess; ГўВҖВңI have a great mind to
return it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo no such thing, I beg of you; he would only send you another, formed
of a magnificent sapphire, or hollowed out of a gigantic ruby. It is
his way, and you must take him as you find him.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment the bell rang to announce the drawing up of the curtain
for the second act. Albert rose to return to his place.

ГўВҖВңShall I see you again?ГўВҖВқ asked the countess.

ГўВҖВңAt the end of the next act, with your permission, I will come and
inquire whether there is anything I can do for you in Paris?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray take notice,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, ГўВҖВңthat my present residence is 22
Rue de Rivoli, and that I am at home to my friends every Saturday
evening. So now, you are both forewarned.ГўВҖВқ

The young men bowed, and quitted the box. Upon reaching their stalls,
they found the whole of the audience in the parterre standing up and
directing their gaze towards the box formerly possessed by the Russian
ambassador. A man of from thirty-five to forty years of age, dressed in
deep black, had just entered, accompanied by a young woman dressed
after the Eastern style. The lady was surpassingly beautiful, while the
rich magnificence of her attire drew all eyes upon her.

ГўВҖВңHullo,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңit is Monte Cristo and his Greek!ГўВҖВқ

The strangers were, indeed, no other than the count and HaydГғВ©e. In a
few moments the young girl had attracted the attention of the whole
house, and even the occupants of the boxes leaned forward to scrutinize
her magnificent diamonds.

The second act passed away during one continued buzz of voicesГўВҖВ”one deep
whisperГўВҖВ”intimating that some great and universally interesting event
had occurred; all eyes, all thoughts, were occupied with the young and
beautiful woman, whose gorgeous apparel and splendid jewels made a most
extraordinary spectacle.

Upon this occasion an unmistakable sign from Madame Danglars intimated
her desire to see Albert in her box directly the curtain fell on the
second act, and neither the politeness nor good taste of Morcerf would
permit his neglecting an invitation so unequivocally given. At the
close of the act he therefore went to the baroness.

Having bowed to the two ladies, he extended his hand to Debray. By the
baroness he was most graciously welcomed, while EugГғВ©nie received him
with her accustomed coldness.

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңyou have come in the nick of time.
There is madame overwhelming me with questions respecting the count;
she insists upon it that I can tell her his birth, education, and
parentage, where he came from, and whither he is going. Being no
disciple of Cagliostro, I was wholly unable to do this; so, by way of
getting out of the scrape, I said, ГўВҖВҳAsk Morcerf; he has got the whole
history of his beloved Monte Cristo at his fingersГўВҖВҷ ends;ГўВҖВҷ whereupon
the baroness signified her desire to see you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it not almost incredible,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat a person
having at least half a million of secret-service money at his command,
should possess so little information?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet me assure you, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Lucien, ГўВҖВңthat had I really the sum
you mention at my disposal, I would employ it more profitably than in
troubling myself to obtain particulars respecting the Count of Monte
Cristo, whose only merit in my eyes consists in his being twice as rich
as a nabob. However, I have turned the business over to Morcerf, so
pray settle it with him as may be most agreeable to you; for my own
part, I care nothing about the count or his mysterious doings.ГўВҖВқ

30093m



ГўВҖВңI am very sure no nabob would have sent me a pair of horses worth
32,000 francs, wearing on their heads four diamonds valued at 5,000
francs each.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe seems to have a mania for diamonds,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, smiling, ГўВҖВңand I
verily believe that, like Potemkin, he keeps his pockets filled, for
the sake of strewing them along the road, as Tom Thumb did his flint
stones.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps he has discovered some mine,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars. ГўВҖВңI suppose
you know he has an order for unlimited credit on the baronГўВҖВҷs banking
establishment?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was not aware of it,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңbut I can readily believe
it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd, further, that he stated to M. Danglars his intention of only
staying a year in Paris, during which time he proposed to spend six
millions.

ГўВҖВңHe must be the Shah of Persia, travelling _incog_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you noticed the remarkable beauty of the young woman, M. Lucien?ГўВҖВқ
inquired EugГғВ©nie.

ГўВҖВңI really never met with one woman so ready to do justice to the charms
of another as yourself,ГўВҖВқ responded Lucien, raising his lorgnette to his
eye. ГўВҖВңA most lovely creature, upon my soul!ГўВҖВқ was his verdict.

ГўВҖВңWho is this young person, M. de Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ inquired EugГғВ©nie; ГўВҖВңdoes
anybody know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, replying to this direct appeal, ГўВҖВңI can
give you very exact information on that subject, as well as on most
points relative to the mysterious person of whom we are now
conversingГўВҖВ”the young woman is a Greek.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo I should suppose by her dress; if you know no more than that,
everyone here is as well-informed as yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am extremely sorry you find me so ignorant a _cicerone_,ГўВҖВқ replied
Morcerf, ГўВҖВңbut I am reluctantly obliged to confess, I have nothing
further to communicateГўВҖВ”yes, stay, I do know one thing more, namely,
that she is a musician, for one day when I chanced to be breakfasting
with the count, I heard the sound of a guzlaГўВҖВ”it is impossible that it
could have been touched by any other finger than her own.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen your count entertains visitors, does he?ГўВҖВқ asked Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңIndeed he does, and in a most lavish manner, I can assure you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI must try and persuade M. Danglars to invite him to a ball or dinner,
or something of the sort, that he may be compelled to ask us in
return.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, laughing; ГўВҖВңdo you really mean you would go to his
house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy not? my husband could accompany me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut do you know this mysterious count is a bachelor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have ample proof to the contrary, if you look opposite,ГўВҖВқ said the
baroness, as she laughingly pointed to the beautiful Greek.

ГўВҖВңNo, no!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Debray; ГўВҖВңthat girl is not his wife: he told us
himself she was his slave. Do you not recollect, Morcerf, his telling
us so at your breakfast?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, ГўВҖВңif slave she be, she has all the air
and manner of a princess.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf the ГўВҖВҳArabian NightsГўВҖВҷ.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you like; but tell me, my dear Lucien, what it is that constitutes
a princess. Why, diamondsГўВҖВ”and she is covered with them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo me she seems overloaded,ГўВҖВқ observed EugГғВ©nie; ГўВҖВңshe would look far
better if she wore fewer, and we should then be able to see her finely
formed throat and wrists.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSee how the artist peeps out!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Madame Danglars. ГўВҖВңMy poor
EugГғВ©nie, you must conceal your passion for the fine arts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI admire all that is beautiful,ГўВҖВқ returned the young lady.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you think of the count?ГўВҖВқ inquired Debray; ГўВҖВңhe is not much
amiss, according to my ideas of good looks.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe count,ГўВҖВқ repeated EugГғВ©nie, as though it had not occurred to her to
observe him sooner; ГўВҖВңthe count?ГўВҖВ”oh, he is so dreadfully pale.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI quite agree with you,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf; ГўВҖВңand the secret of that very
pallor is what we want to find out. The Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ” insists upon it
that he is a vampire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ” has returned to Paris, has she?ГўВҖВқ inquired the
baroness.

ГўВҖВңIs that she, mamma?ГўВҖВқ asked EugГғВ©nie; ГўВҖВңalmost opposite to us, with that
profusion of beautiful light hair?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat is she. Shall I tell you what you
ought to do, Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCommand me, madame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, you should go and bring your Count of Monte Cristo to us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat for?ГўВҖВқ asked EugГғВ©nie.

ГўВҖВңWhat for? Why, to converse with him, of course. Have you really no
desire to meet him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNone whatever,ГўВҖВқ replied EugГғВ©nie.

ГўВҖВңStrange child,ГўВҖВқ murmured the baroness.

ГўВҖВңHe will very probably come of his own accord,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf. ГўВҖВңThere;
do you see, madame, he recognizes you, and bows.ГўВҖВқ

The baroness returned the salute in the most smiling and graceful
manner.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңI may as well be magnanimous, and tear myself
away to forward your wishes. Adieu; I will go and try if there are any
means of speaking to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo straight to his box; that will be the simplest plan.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I have never been presented.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPresented to whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the beautiful Greek.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou say she is only a slave?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhile you assert that she is a queen, or at least a princess. No; I
hope that when he sees me leave you, he will come out.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is possibleГўВҖВ”go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am going,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, as he made his parting bow.

Just as he was passing the countГўВҖВҷs box, the door opened, and Monte
Cristo came forth. After giving some directions to Ali, who stood in
the lobby, the count took AlbertГўВҖВҷs arm. Carefully closing the box door,
Ali placed himself before it, while a crowd of spectators assembled
round the Nubian.

ГўВҖВңUpon my word,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңParis is a strange city, and the
Parisians a very singular people. See that cluster of persons collected
around poor Ali, who is as much astonished as themselves; really one
might suppose he was the only Nubian they had ever beheld. Now I can
promise you, that a Frenchman might show himself in public, either in
Tunis, Constantinople, Bagdad, or Cairo, without being treated in that
way.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat shows that the Eastern nations have too much good sense to waste
their time and attention on objects undeserving of either. However, as
far as Ali is concerned, I can assure you, the interest he excites is
merely from the circumstance of his being your attendantГўВҖВ”you, who are
at this moment the most celebrated and fashionable person in Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally? and what has procured me so flattering a distinction?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? why, yourself, to be sure! You give away horses worth a thousand
louis; you save the lives of ladies of high rank and beauty; under the
name of Major Black you run thoroughbreds ridden by tiny urchins not
larger than marmots; then, when you have carried off the golden trophy
of victory, instead of setting any value on it, you give it to the
first handsome woman you think of!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who has filled your head with all this nonsense?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, in the first place, I heard it from Madame Danglars, who, by the
by, is dying to see you in her box, or to have you seen there by
others; secondly, I learned it from BeauchampГўВҖВҷs journal; and thirdly,
from my own imagination. Why, if you sought concealment, did you call
your horse Vampa?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat was an oversight, certainly,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңbut tell me,
does the Count of Morcerf never visit the Opera? I have been looking
for him, but without success.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe will be here tonight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what part of the house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the baronessГўВҖВҷs box, I believe.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat charming young woman with her is her daughter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI congratulate you.ГўВҖВқ

Morcerf smiled.

ГўВҖВңWe will discuss that subject at length some future time,ГўВҖВқ said he.
ГўВҖВңBut what do you think of the music?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat music?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, the music you have been listening to.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is well enough as the production of a human composer, sung by
featherless bipeds, to quote the late Diogenes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom which it would seem, my dear count, that you can at pleasure
enjoy the seraphic strains that proceed from the seven choirs of
paradise?ГўВҖВқ

30097m



ГўВҖВңYou are right, in some degree; when I wish to listen to sounds more
exquisitely attuned to melody than mortal ear ever yet listened to, I
go to sleep.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen sleep here, my dear count. The conditions are favorable; what
else was opera invented for?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, thank you. Your orchestra is too noisy. To sleep after the manner
I speak of, absolute calm and silence are necessary, and then a certain
preparationГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI knowГўВҖВ”the famous hashish!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely. So, my dear viscount, whenever you wish to be regaled with
music come and sup with me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have already enjoyed that treat when breakfasting with you,ГўВҖВқ said
Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңDo you mean at Rome?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, then, I suppose you heard HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs guzla; the poor exile
frequently beguiles a weary hour in playing over to me the airs of her
native land.ГўВҖВқ

Morcerf did not pursue the subject, and Monte Cristo himself fell into
a silent reverie.

The bell rang at this moment for the rising of the curtain.

ГўВҖВңYou will excuse my leaving you,ГўВҖВқ said the count, turning in the
direction of his box.

ГўВҖВңWhat? Are you going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray, say everything that is kind to Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ” on the part of her
friend the vampire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what message shall I convey to the baroness!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat, with her permission, I shall do myself the honor of paying my
respects in the course of the evening.ГўВҖВқ

The third act had begun; and during its progress the Count of Morcerf,
according to his promise, made his appearance in the box of Madame
Danglars. The Count of Morcerf was not a person to excite either
interest or curiosity in a place of public amusement; his presence,
therefore, was wholly unnoticed, save by the occupants of the box in
which he had just seated himself.

The quick eye of Monte Cristo however, marked his coming; and a slight
though meaning smile passed over his lips. HaydГғВ©e, whose soul seemed
centred in the business of the stage, like all unsophisticated natures,
delighted in whatever addressed itself to the eye or ear.

30099m



The third act passed off as usual. Mesdemoiselles Noblet, Julia, and
Leroux executed the customary pirouettes; Robert duly challenged the
Prince of Granada; and the royal father of the princess Isabella,
taking his daughter by the hand, swept round the stage with majestic
strides, the better to display the rich folds of his velvet robe and
mantle. After which the curtain again fell, and the spectators poured
forth from the theatre into the lobbies and salon.

The count left his box, and a moment later was saluting the Baronne
Danglars, who could not restrain a cry of mingled pleasure and
surprise.

ГўВҖВңYou are welcome, count!ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, as he entered. ГўВҖВңI have been
most anxious to see you, that I might repeat orally the thanks writing
can so ill express.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSurely so trifling a circumstance cannot deserve a place in your
remembrance. Believe me, madame, I had entirely forgotten it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut it is not so easy to forget, monsieur, that the very next day
after your princely gift you saved the life of my dear friend, Madame
de Villefort, which was endangered by the very animals your generosity
restored to me.ГўВҖВқ

30101m



ГўВҖВңThis time, at least, I do not deserve your thanks. It was Ali, my
Nubian slave, who rendered this service to Madame de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas it Ali,ГўВҖВқ asked the Count of Morcerf, ГўВҖВңwho rescued my son from the
hands of bandits?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, count,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo taking the hand held out to him by
the general; ГўВҖВңin this instance I may fairly and freely accept your
thanks; but you have already tendered them, and fully discharged your
debtГўВҖВ”if indeed there existed oneГўВҖВ”and I feel almost mortified to find
you still reverting to the subject. May I beg of you, baroness, to
honor me with an introduction to your daughter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you are no strangerГўВҖВ”at least not by name,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame
Danglars, ГўВҖВңand the last two or three days we have really talked of
nothing but you. EugГғВ©nie,ГўВҖВқ continued the baroness, turning towards her
daughter, ГўВҖВңthis is the Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

The count bowed, while Mademoiselle Danglars bent her head slightly.

ГўВҖВңYou have a charming young person with you tonight, count,ГўВҖВқ said
EugГғВ©nie. ГўВҖВңIs she your daughter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, mademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, astonished at the coolness and
freedom of the question. ГўВҖВңShe is a poor unfortunate Greek left under my
care.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is her name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңA Greek?ГўВҖВқ murmured the Count of Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed, count,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars; ГўВҖВңand tell me, did you ever
see at the court of Ali Tepelini, whom you so gloriously and valiantly
served, a more exquisite beauty or richer costume?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid I hear rightly, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңthat you served at
Yanina?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was inspector-general of the pashaГўВҖВҷs troops,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf; ГўВҖВңand
it is no secret that I owe my fortune, such as it is, to the liberality
of the illustrious Albanese chief.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut look!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңWhere?ГўВҖВқ stammered Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңThere,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo placing his arms around the count, and
leaning with him over the front of the box, just as HaydГғВ©e, whose eyes
were occupied in examining the theatre in search of her guardian,
perceived his pale features close to MorcerfГўВҖВҷs face. It was as if the
young girl beheld the head of Medusa. She bent forwards as though to
assure herself of the reality of what she saw, then, uttering a faint
cry, threw herself back in her seat. The sound was heard by the people
about Ali, who instantly opened the box-door.

ГўВҖВңWhy, count,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed EugГғВ©nie, ГўВҖВңwhat has happened to your ward? she
seems to have been taken suddenly ill.

ГўВҖВңVery probably,ГўВҖВқ answered the count. ГўВҖВңBut do not be alarmed on her
account. HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs nervous system is delicately organized, and she is
peculiarly susceptible to the odors even of flowersГўВҖВ”nay, there are some
which cause her to faint if brought into her presence. However,ГўВҖВқ
continued Monte Cristo, drawing a small phial from his pocket, ГўВҖВңI have
an infallible remedy.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, he bowed to the baroness and her daughter, exchanged a
parting shake of the hand with Debray and the count, and left Madame
DanglarsГўВҖВҷ box. Upon his return to HaydГғВ©e he found her still very pale.
As soon as she saw him she seized his hand; her own hands were moist
and icy cold.

ГўВҖВңWho was it you were talking with over there?ГўВҖВқ she asked.

ГўВҖВңWith the Count of Morcerf,ГўВҖВқ answered Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңHe tells me he
served your illustrious father, and that he owes his fortune to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWretch!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed HaydГғВ©e, her eyes flashing with rage; ГўВҖВңhe sold my
father to the Turks, and the fortune he boasts of was the price of his
treachery! Did not you know that, my dear lord?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSomething of this I heard in Epirus,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut the
particulars are still unknown to me. You shall relate them to me, my
child. They are, no doubt, both curious and interesting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes; but let us go. I feel as though it would kill me to remain
long near that dreadful man.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, HaydГғВ©e arose, and wrapping herself in her burnouse of white
cashmere embroidered with pearls and coral, she hastily quitted the box
at the moment when the curtain was rising upon the fourth act.

ГўВҖВңDo you observe,ГўВҖВқ said the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ” to Albert, who had returned to
her side, ГўВҖВңthat man does nothing like other people; he listens most
devoutly to the third act of _Robert le Diable_, and when the fourth
begins, takes his departure.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 54. A Flurry in Stocks

Some days after this meeting, Albert de Morcerf visited the Count of
Monte Cristo at his house in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, which had already
assumed that palace-like appearance which the countГўВҖВҷs princely fortune
enabled him to give even to his most temporary residences. He came to
renew the thanks of Madame Danglars which had been already conveyed to
the count through the medium of a letter, signed ГўВҖВңBaronne Danglars,
_nГғВ©e_ Hermine de Servieux.ГўВҖВқ

Albert was accompanied by Lucien Debray, who, joining in his friendГўВҖВҷs
conversation, added some passing compliments, the source of which the
countГўВҖВҷs talent for finesse easily enabled him to guess. He was
convinced that LucienГўВҖВҷs visit was due to a double feeling of curiosity,
the larger half of which sentiment emanated from the Rue de la ChaussГғВ©e
dГўВҖВҷAntin. In short, Madame Danglars, not being able personally to
examine in detail the domestic economy and household arrangements of a
man who gave away horses worth 30,000 francs and who went to the opera
with a Greek slave wearing diamonds to the amount of a million of
money, had deputed those eyes, by which she was accustomed to see, to
give her a faithful account of the mode of life of this
incomprehensible person. But the count did not appear to suspect that
there could be the slightest connection between LucienГўВҖВҷs visit and the
curiosity of the baroness.

ГўВҖВңYou are in constant communication with the Baron Danglars?ГўВҖВқ the count
inquired of Albert de Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңYes, count, you know what I told you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll remains the same, then, in that quarter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is more than ever a settled thing,ГўВҖВқ said Lucien,ГўВҖВ”and, considering
that this remark was all that he was at that time called upon to make,
he adjusted the glass to his eye, and biting the top of his gold headed
cane, began to make the tour of the apartment, examining the arms and
the pictures.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңI did not expect that the affair would be so
promptly concluded.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, things take their course without our assistance. While we are
forgetting them, they are falling into their appointed order; and when,
again, our attention is directed to them, we are surprised at the
progress they have made towards the proposed end. My father and M.
Danglars served together in Spain, my father in the army and M.
Danglars in the commissariat department. It was there that my father,
ruined by the revolution, and M. Danglars, who never had possessed any
patrimony, both laid the foundations of their different fortunes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңI think M. Danglars mentioned that in a visit
which I paid him; and,ГўВҖВқ continued he, casting a side-glance at Lucien,
who was turning over the leaves of an album, ГўВҖВңMademoiselle EugГғВ©nie is
prettyГўВҖВ”I think I remember that to be her name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery pretty, or rather, very beautiful,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңbut of that
style of beauty which I do not appreciate; I am an ungrateful fellow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou speak as if you were already her husband.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ returned Albert, in his turn looking around to see what Lucien
was doing.

ГўВҖВңReally,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, lowering his voice, ГўВҖВңyou do not appear to
me to be very enthusiastic on the subject of this marriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle Danglars is too rich for me,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf, ГўВҖВңand that
frightens me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthatГўВҖВҷs a fine reason to give. Are you
not rich yourself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy fatherГўВҖВҷs income is about 50,000 francs per annum; and he will give
me, perhaps, ten or twelve thousand when I marry.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat, perhaps, might not be considered a large sum, in Paris
especially,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңbut everything does not depend on wealth,
and it is a fine thing to have a good name, and to occupy a high
station in society. Your name is celebrated, your position magnificent;
and then the Comte de Morcerf is a soldier, and it is pleasing to see
the integrity of a Bayard united to the poverty of a Duguesclin;
disinterestedness is the brightest ray in which a noble sword can
shine. As for me, I consider the union with Mademoiselle Danglars a
most suitable one; she will enrich you, and you will ennoble her.ГўВҖВқ

Albert shook his head, and looked thoughtful.

ГўВҖВңThere is still something else,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңI confess,ГўВҖВқ observed Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat I have some difficulty in
comprehending your objection to a young lady who is both rich and
beautiful.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңthis repugnance, if repugnance it may be called,
is not all on my side.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhence can it arise, then? for you told me your father desired the
marriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is my mother who dissents; she has a clear and penetrating
judgment, and does not smile on the proposed union. I cannot account
for it, but she seems to entertain some prejudice against the
Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

30107m



ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the count, in a somewhat forced tone, ГўВҖВңthat may be easily
explained; the Comtesse de Morcerf, who is aristocracy and refinement
itself, does not relish the idea of being allied by your marriage with
one of ignoble birth; that is natural enough.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know if that is her reason,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңbut one thing I do
know, that if this marriage be consummated, it will render her quite
miserable. There was to have been a meeting six weeks ago in order to
talk over and settle the affair; but I had such a sudden attack of
indispositionГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReal?ГўВҖВқ interrupted the count, smiling.

ГўВҖВңOh, real enough, from anxiety doubtless,ГўВҖВ”at any rate they postponed
the matter for two months. There is no hurry, you know. I am not yet
twenty-one, and EugГғВ©nie is only seventeen; but the two months expire
next week. It must be done. My dear count, you cannot imagine how my
mind is harassed. How happy you are in being exempt from all this!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, and why should not you be free, too? What prevents you from
being so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it will be too great a disappointment to my father if I do not
marry Mademoiselle Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMarry her then,ГўВҖВқ said the count, with a significant shrug of the
shoulders.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Morcerf, ГўВҖВңbut that will plunge my mother into positive
grief.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen do not marry her,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңWell, I shall see. I will try and think over what is the best thing to
be done; you will give me your advice, will you not, and if possible
extricate me from my unpleasant position? I think, rather than give
pain to my dear mother, I would run the risk of offending the count.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo turned away; he seemed moved by this last remark.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said he to Debray, who had thrown himself into an easy-chair at
the farthest extremity of the salon, and who held a pencil in his right
hand and an account book in his left, ГўВҖВңwhat are you doing there? Are
you making a sketch after Poussin?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ was the tranquil response; ГўВҖВңI am too fond of art to attempt
anything of that sort. I am doing a little sum in arithmetic.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn arithmetic?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I am calculatingГўВҖВ”by the way, Morcerf, that indirectly concerns
youГўВҖВ”I am calculating what the house of Danglars must have gained by the
last rise in Haiti bonds; from 206 they have risen to 409 in three
days, and the prudent banker had purchased at 206; therefore he must
have made 300,000 livres.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is not his biggest scoop,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf; ГўВҖВңdid he not make a
million in Spaniards this last year?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow,ГўВҖВқ said Lucien, ГўВҖВңhere is the Count of Monte Cristo, who
will say to you, as the Italians do,ГўВҖВ”

      ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳDenaro e santitГғВ ,

      MetГғВ  della metГғВ .ГўВҖВҷ9


ГўВҖВңWhen they tell me such things, I only shrug my shoulders and say
nothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you were speaking of Haitians?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңAh, Haitians,ГўВҖВ”that is quite another thing! Haitians are the _ГғВ©cartГғВ©_
of French stock-jobbing. We may like bouillotte, delight in whist, be
enraptured with boston, and yet grow tired of them all; but we always
come back to _ГғВ©cartГғВ©_ГўВҖВ”it is not only a game, it is a _hors-dГўВҖВҷГ…В“uvre_! M.
Danglars sold yesterday at 405, and pockets 300,000 francs. Had he but
waited till today, the price would have fallen to 205, and instead of
gaining 300,000 francs, he would have lost 20 or 25,000.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what has caused the sudden fall from 409 to 206?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte
Cristo. ГўВҖВңI am profoundly ignorant of all these stock-jobbing
intrigues.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, laughing, ГўВҖВңone piece of news follows another,
and there is often great dissimilarity between them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI see that M. Danglars is accustomed to play at
gaining or losing 300,000 francs in a day; he must be enormously rich.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not he who plays!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Lucien; ГўВҖВңit is Madame Danglars; she
is indeed daring.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you who are a reasonable being, Lucien, and who knows how little
dependence is to be placed on the news, since you are at the
fountain-head, surely you ought to prevent it,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, with a
smile.

ГўВҖВңHow can I, if her husband fails in controlling her?ГўВҖВқ asked Lucien;
ГўВҖВңyou know the character of the baronessГўВҖВ”no one has any influence with
her, and she does precisely what she pleases.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, if I were in your placeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI would reform her; it would be rendering a service to her future
son-in-law.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow would you set about it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that would be easy enoughГўВҖВ”I would give her a lesson.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA lesson?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. Your position as secretary to the minister renders your authority
great on the subject of political news; you never open your mouth but
the stockbrokers immediately stenograph your words. Cause her to lose a
hundred thousand francs, and that would teach her prudence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not understand,ГўВҖВқ stammered Lucien.

ГўВҖВңIt is very clear, notwithstanding,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, with an
artlessness wholly free from affectation; ГўВҖВңtell her some fine morning
an unheard-of piece of intelligenceГўВҖВ”some telegraphic despatch, of which
you alone are in possession; for instance, that Henri IV. was seen
yesterday at GabrielleГўВҖВҷs. That would boom the market; she will buy
heavily, and she will certainly lose when Beauchamp announces the
following day, in his gazette, ГўВҖВҳThe report circulated by some usually
well-informed persons that the king was seen yesterday at GabrielleГўВҖВҷs
house, is totally without foundation. We can positively assert that his
majesty did not quit the Pont-Neuf.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Lucien half smiled. Monte Cristo, although apparently indifferent, had
not lost one word of this conversation, and his penetrating eye had
even read a hidden secret in the embarrassed manner of the secretary.
This embarrassment had completely escaped Albert, but it caused Lucien
to shorten his visit; he was evidently ill at ease. The count, in
taking leave of him, said something in a low voice, to which he
answered, ГўВҖВңWillingly, count; I accept.ГўВҖВқ The count returned to young
Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңDo you not think, on reflection,ГўВҖВқ said he to him, ГўВҖВңthat you have done
wrong in thus speaking of your mother-in-law in the presence of M.
Debray?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear count,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңI beg of you not to apply that title so
prematurely.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, speaking without any exaggeration, is your mother really so very
much averse to this marriage?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much so that the baroness very rarely comes to the house, and my
mother, has not, I think, visited Madame Danglars twice in her whole
life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI am emboldened to speak openly to you. M.
Danglars is my banker; M. de Villefort has overwhelmed me with
politeness in return for a service which a casual piece of good fortune
enabled me to render him. I predict from all this an avalanche of
dinners and routs. Now, in order not to presume on this, and also to be
beforehand with them, I have, if agreeable to you, thought of inviting
M. and Madame Danglars, and M. and Madame de Villefort, to my
country-house at Auteuil. If I were to invite you and the Count and
Countess of Morcerf to this dinner, I should give it the appearance of
being a matrimonial meeting, or at least Madame de Morcerf would look
upon the affair in that light, especially if Baron Danglars did me the
honor to bring his daughter. In that case your mother would hold me in
aversion, and I do not at all wish that; on the contrary, I desire to
stand high in her esteem.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, count,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңI thank you sincerely for having used
so much candor towards me, and I gratefully accept the exclusion which
you propose. You say you desire my motherГўВҖВҷs good opinion; I assure you
it is already yours to a very unusual extent.ГўВҖВқ

30111m



ГўВҖВңDo you think so?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, with interest.

ГўВҖВңOh, I am sure of it; we talked of you an hour after you left us the
other day. But to return to what we were saying. If my mother could
know of this attention on your partГўВҖВ”and I will venture to tell herГўВҖВ”I am
sure that she will be most grateful to you; it is true that my father
will be equally angry.ГўВҖВқ The count laughed.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he to Morcerf, ГўВҖВңbut I think your father will not be the
only angry one; M. and Madame Danglars will think me a very
ill-mannered person. They know that I am intimate with youГўВҖВ”that you
are, in fact; one of the oldest of my Parisian acquaintancesГўВҖВ”and they
will not find you at my house; they will certainly ask me why I did not
invite you. Be sure to provide yourself with some previous engagement
which shall have a semblance of probability, and communicate the fact
to me by a line in writing. You know that with bankers nothing but a
written document will be valid.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will do better than that,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңmy mother is wishing to go
to the sea-sideГўВҖВ”what day is fixed for your dinner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSaturday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is TuesdayГўВҖВ”well, tomorrow evening we leave, and the day after we
shall be at TrГғВ©port. Really, count, you have a delightful way of
setting people at their ease.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, you give me more credit than I deserve; I only wish to do what
will be agreeable to you, that is all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen shall you send your invitations?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis very day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I will immediately call on M. Danglars, and tell him that my
mother and myself must leave Paris tomorrow. I have not seen you,
consequently I know nothing of your dinner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow foolish you are! Have you forgotten that M. Debray has just seen
you at my house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFix it this way. I have seen you, and invited you without any
ceremony, when you instantly answered that it would be impossible for
you to accept, as you were going to TrГғВ©port.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, that is settled; but you will come and call on my mother
before tomorrow?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBefore tomorrow?ГўВҖВ”that will be a difficult matter to arrange, besides,
I shall just be in the way of all the preparations for departure.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you can do better. You were only a charming man before, but, if
you accede to my proposal, you will be adorable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat must I do to attain such sublimity?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are today free as airГўВҖВ”come and dine with me; we shall be a small
partyГўВҖВ”only yourself, my mother, and I. You have scarcely seen my
mother; you shall have an opportunity of observing her more closely.
She is a remarkable woman, and I only regret that there does not exist
another like her, about twenty years younger; in that case, I assure
you, there would very soon be a Countess and Viscountess of Morcerf. As
to my father, you will not see him; he is officially engaged, and dines
with the chief referendary. We will talk over our travels; and you, who
have seen the whole world, will relate your adventuresГўВҖВ”you shall tell
us the history of the beautiful Greek who was with you the other night
at the Opera, and whom you call your slave, and yet treat like a
princess. We will talk Italian and Spanish. Come, accept my invitation,
and my mother will thank you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA thousand thanks,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyour invitation is most gracious,
and I regret exceedingly that it is not in my power to accept it. I am
not so much at liberty as you suppose; on the contrary, I have a most
important engagement.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, take care, you were teaching me just now how, in case of an
invitation to dinner, one might creditably make an excuse. I require
the proof of a pre-engagement. I am not a banker, like M. Danglars, but
I am quite as incredulous as he is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am going to give you a proof,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, and he rang the
bell.

ГўВҖВңHumph,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңthis is the second time you have refused to
dine with my mother; it is evident that you wish to avoid her.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo started. ГўВҖВңOh, you do not mean that,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңbesides,
here comes the confirmation of my assertion.ГўВҖВқ

Baptistin entered, and remained standing at the door.

ГўВҖВңI had no previous knowledge of your visit, had I?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, you are such an extraordinary person, that I would not answer
for it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt all events, I could not guess that you would invite me to dinner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProbably not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, listen, Baptistin, what did I tell you this morning when I
called you into my laboratory?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo close the door against visitors as soon as the clock struck five,ГўВҖВқ
replied the valet.

ГўВҖВңWhat then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңNo, no, I wish to do away with that mysterious reputation that you
have given me, my dear viscount; it is tiresome to be always acting
Manfred. I wish my life to be free and open. Go on, Baptistin.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen to admit no one except Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti and his son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou hearГўВҖВ”Major Bartolomeo CavalcantiГўВҖВ”a man who ranks amongst the most
ancient nobility of Italy, whose name Dante has celebrated in the tenth
canto of _The Inferno_, you remember it, do you not? Then there is his
son, Andrea, a charming young man, about your own age, viscount,
bearing the same title as yourself, and who is making his entry into
the Parisian world, aided by his fatherГўВҖВҷs millions. The major will
bring his son with him this evening, the _contino_, as we say in Italy;
he confides him to my care. If he proves himself worthy of it, I will
do what I can to advance his interests. You will assist me in the work,
will you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMost undoubtedly. This Major Cavalcanti is an old friend of yours,
then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy no means. He is a perfect nobleman, very polite, modest, and
agreeable, such as may be found constantly in Italy, descendants of
very ancient families. I have met him several times at Florence,
Bologna and Lucca, and he has now communicated to me the fact of his
arrival in Paris. The acquaintances one makes in travelling have a sort
of claim on one; they everywhere expect to receive the same attention
which you once paid them by chance, as though the civilities of a
passing hour were likely to awaken any lasting interest in favor of the
man in whose society you may happen to be thrown in the course of your
journey. This good Major Cavalcanti is come to take a second view of
Paris, which he only saw in passing through in the time of the Empire,
when he was on his way to Moscow. I shall give him a good dinner, he
will confide his son to my care, I will promise to watch over him, I
shall let him follow in whatever path his folly may lead him, and then
I shall have done my part.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; I see you are a model Mentor,ГўВҖВқ said Albert ГўВҖВңGood-bye, we
shall return on Sunday. By the way, I have received news of Franz.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you? Is he still amusing himself in Italy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe so; however, he regrets your absence extremely. He says you
were the sun of Rome, and that without you all appears dark and cloudy;
I do not know if he does not even go so far as to say that it rains.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis opinion of me is altered for the better, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, he still persists in looking upon you as the most incomprehensible
and mysterious of beings.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is a charming young man,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңand I felt a lively
interest in him the very first evening of my introduction, when I met
him in search of a supper, and prevailed upon him to accept a portion
of mine. He is, I think, the son of General dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe same who was so shamefully assassinated in 1815?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the Bonapartists.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. Really I like him extremely; is there not also a matrimonial
engagement contemplated for him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, he is to marry Mademoiselle de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ

30115m



ГўВҖВңAnd you know I am to marry Mademoiselle Danglars,ГўВҖВқ said Albert,
laughing.

ГўВҖВңYou smile.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy do you do so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI smile because there appears to me to be about as much inclination
for the consummation of the engagement in question as there is for my
own. But really, my dear count, we are talking as much of women as they
do of us; it is unpardonable.ГўВҖВқ

Albert rose.

ГўВҖВңAre you going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, that is a good idea!ГўВҖВ”two hours have I been boring you to death
with my company, and then you, with the greatest politeness, ask me if
I am going. Indeed, count, you are the most polished man in the world.
And your servants, too, how very well behaved they are; there is quite
a style about them. Monsieur Baptistin especially; I could never get
such a man as that. My servants seem to imitate those you sometimes see
in a play, who, because they have only a word or two to say, aquit
themselves in the most awkward manner possible. Therefore, if you part
with M. Baptistin, give me the refusal of him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy all means.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is not all; give my compliments to your illustrious Luccanese,
Cavalcante of the Cavalcanti; and if by any chance he should be wishing
to establish his son, find him a wife very rich, very noble on her
motherГўВҖВҷs side at least, and a baroness in right of her father, I will
help you in the search.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, ha; you will do as much as that, will you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, really, nothing is certain in this world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, count, what a service you might render me! I should like you a
hundred times better if, by your intervention, I could manage to remain
a bachelor, even were it only for ten years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing is impossible,ГўВҖВқ gravely replied Monte Cristo; and taking leave
of Albert, he returned into the house, and struck the gong three times.
Bertuccio appeared.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Bertuccio, you understand that I intend entertaining company
on Saturday at Auteuil.ГўВҖВқ Bertuccio slightly started. ГўВҖВңI shall require
your services to see that all be properly arranged. It is a beautiful
house, or at all events may be made so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere must be a good deal done before it can deserve that title, your
excellency, for the tapestried hangings are very old.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet them all be taken away and changed, then, with the exception of
the sleeping-chamber which is hung with red damask; you will leave that
exactly as it is.ГўВҖВқ Bertuccio bowed. ГўВҖВңYou will not touch the garden
either; as to the yard, you may do what you please with it; I should
prefer that being altered beyond all recognition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will do everything in my power to carry out your wishes, your
excellency. I should be glad, however, to receive your excellencyГўВҖВҷs
commands concerning the dinner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, my dear M. Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңsince you have been in
Paris, you have become quite nervous, and apparently out of your
element; you no longer seem to understand me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut surely your excellency will be so good as to inform me whom you
are expecting to receive?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not yet know myself, neither is it necessary that you should do
so. ГўВҖВҳLucullus dines with Lucullus,ГўВҖВҷ that is quite sufficient.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio bowed, and left the room.



 Chapter 55. Major Cavalcanti

Both the count and Baptistin had told the truth when they announced to
Morcerf the proposed visit of the major, which had served Monte Cristo
as a pretext for declining AlbertГўВҖВҷs invitation. Seven oГўВҖВҷclock had just
struck, and M. Bertuccio, according to the command which had been given
him, had two hours before left for Auteuil, when a cab stopped at the
door, and after depositing its occupant at the gate, immediately
hurried away, as if ashamed of its employment. The visitor was about
fifty-two years of age, dressed in one of the green surtouts,
ornamented with black frogs, which have so long maintained their
popularity all over Europe. He wore trousers of blue cloth, boots
tolerably clean, but not of the brightest polish, and a little too
thick in the soles, buckskin gloves, a hat somewhat resembling in shape
those usually worn by the gendarmes, and a black cravat striped with
white, which, if the proprietor had not worn it of his own free will,
might have passed for a halter, so much did it resemble one. Such was
the picturesque costume of the person who rang at the gate, and
demanded if it was not at No. 30 in the Avenue des Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es that
the Count of Monte Cristo lived, and who, being answered by the porter
in the affirmative, entered, closed the gate after him, and began to
ascend the steps.

The small and angular head of this man, his white hair and thick gray
moustaches, caused him to be easily recognized by Baptistin, who had
received an exact description of the expected visitor, and who was
awaiting him in the hall. Therefore, scarcely had the stranger time to
pronounce his name before the count was apprised of his arrival. He was
ushered into a simple and elegant drawing-room, and the count rose to
meet him with a smiling air.

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear sir, you are most welcome; I was expecting you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ said the Italian, ГўВҖВңwas your excellency then aware of my
visit?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I had been told that I should see you today at seven oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you have received full information concerning my arrival?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf course.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, so much the better, I feared this little precaution might have
been forgotten.ГўВҖВқ

30119m



ГўВҖВңWhat precaution?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat of informing you beforehand of my coming.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, it has not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you are sure you are not mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery sure.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt really was I whom your excellency expected at seven oГўВҖВҷclock this
evening?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will prove it to you beyond a doubt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, never mind that,ГўВҖВқ said the Italian; ГўВҖВңit is not worth the
trouble.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. His visitor appeared slightly uneasy.
ГўВҖВңLet me see,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңare you not the Marquis Bartolomeo
Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBartolomeo Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ joyfully replied the Italian; ГўВҖВңyes, I am
really he.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEx-major in the Austrian service?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas I a major?ГўВҖВқ timidly asked the old soldier.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңyou were a major; that is the title the
French give to the post which you filled in Italy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery good,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңI do not demand more, you understandГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour visit here today is not of your own suggestion, is it?ГўВҖВқ said
Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңNo, certainly not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou were sent by some other person?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the excellent AbbГғВ© Busoni?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly so,ГўВҖВқ said the delighted major.

ГўВҖВңAnd you have a letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, there it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGive it to me, then.ГўВҖВқ And Monte Cristo took the letter, which he
opened and read. The major looked at the count with his large staring
eyes, and then took a survey of the apartment, but his gaze almost
immediately reverted to the proprietor of the room.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, I see. ГўВҖВҳMajor Cavalcanti, a worthy patrician of Lucca, a
descendant of the Cavalcanti of Florence,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ continued Monte Cristo,
reading aloud, ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳpossessing an income of half a million.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo raised his eyes from the paper, and bowed.

ГўВҖВңHalf a million,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңmagnificent!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHalf a million, is it?ГўВҖВқ said the major.

ГўВҖВңYes, in so many words; and it must be so, for the abbГғВ© knows correctly
the amount of all the largest fortunes in Europe.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe it half a million, then; but on my word of honor, I had no idea
that it was so much.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause you are robbed by your steward. You must make some reformation
in that quarter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have opened my eyes,ГўВҖВқ said the Italian gravely; ГўВҖВңI will show the
gentlemen the door.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo resumed the perusal of the letter:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd who only needs one thing more to make him happy.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed but one!ГўВҖВқ said the major with a sigh.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhich is to recover a lost and adored son.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA lost and adored son!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳStolen away in his infancy, either by an enemy of his noble family or
by the gypsies.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt the age of five years!ГўВҖВқ said the major with a deep sigh, and
raising his eye to heaven.

ГўВҖВңUnhappy father,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. The count continued:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI have given him renewed life and hope, in the assurance that you
have the power of restoring the son whom he has vainly sought for
fifteen years.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

The major looked at the count with an indescribable expression of
anxiety.

ГўВҖВңI have the power of so doing,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. The major recovered
his self-possession.

ГўВҖВңSo, then,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthe letter was true to the end?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you doubt it, my dear Monsieur Bartolomeo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, indeed; certainly not; a good man, a man holding religious office,
as does the AbbГғВ© Busoni, could not condescend to deceive or play off a
joke; but your excellency has not read all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңthere is a postscript.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ repeated the major, ГўВҖВңyesГўВҖВ”thereГўВҖВ”isГўВҖВ”aГўВҖВ”postscript.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIn order to save Major Cavalcanti the trouble of drawing on his
banker, I send him a draft for 2,000 francs to defray his travelling
expenses, and credit on you for the further sum of 48,000 francs, which
you still owe me.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

The major awaited the conclusion of the postscript, apparently with
great anxiety.

ГўВҖВңVery good,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңHe said ГўВҖВҳvery good,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ muttered the major, ГўВҖВңthenГўВҖВ”sirГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ replied he.

ГўВҖВңThen what?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңThen the postscriptГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell; what of the postscript?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen the postscript is as favorably received by you as the rest of the
letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; the AbbГғВ© Busoni and myself have a small account open
between us. I do not remember if it is exactly 48,000 francs, which I
am still owing him, but I dare say we shall not dispute the difference.
You attached great importance, then, to this postscript, my dear
Monsieur Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI must explain to you,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңthat, fully confiding in the
signature of the AbbГғВ© Busoni, I had not provided myself with any other
funds; so that if this resource had failed me, I should have found
myself very unpleasantly situated in Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible that a man of your standing should be embarrassed
anywhere?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWhy, really I know no one,ГўВҖВқ said the major.

ГўВҖВңBut then you yourself are known to others?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I am known, so thatГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProceed, my dear Monsieur Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that you will remit to me these 48,000 francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, at your first request.ГўВҖВқ The majorГўВҖВҷs eyes dilated with
pleasing astonishment. ГўВҖВңBut sit down,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңreally I do
not know what I have been thinking ofГўВҖВ”I have positively kept you
standing for the last quarter of an hour.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt mention it.ГўВҖВқ The major drew an armchair towards him, and
proceeded to seat himself.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңwhat will you takeГўВҖВ”a glass of sherry, port, or
Alicante?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlicante, if you please; it is my favorite wine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have some that is very good. You will take a biscuit with it, will
you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I will take a biscuit, as you are so obliging.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo rang; Baptistin appeared. The count advanced to meet him.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ said he in a low voice.

ГўВҖВңThe young man is here,ГўВҖВқ said the valet de chambre in the same tone.

ГўВҖВңInto what room did you take him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңInto the blue drawing-room, according to your excellencyГўВҖВҷs orders.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs right; now bring the Alicante and some biscuits.ГўВҖВқ

Baptistin left the room.

ГўВҖВңReally,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңI am quite ashamed of the trouble I am
giving you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray donГўВҖВҷt mention such a thing,ГўВҖВқ said the count. Baptistin re-entered
with glasses, wine, and biscuits. The count filled one glass, but in
the other he only poured a few drops of the ruby-colored liquid. The
bottle was covered with spidersГўВҖВҷ webs, and all the other signs which
indicate the age of wine more truly than do wrinkles on a manГўВҖВҷs face.
The major made a wise choice; he took the full glass and a biscuit. The
count told Baptistin to leave the plate within reach of his guest, who
began by sipping the Alicante with an expression of great satisfaction,
and then delicately steeped his biscuit in the wine.

30123m



ГўВҖВңSo, sir, you lived at Lucca, did you? You were rich, noble, held in
great esteemГўВҖВ”had all that could render a man happy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll,ГўВҖВқ said the major, hastily swallowing his biscuit, ГўВҖВңpositively
all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd yet there was one thing wanting in order to complete your
happiness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnly one thing,ГўВҖВқ said the Italian.

ГўВҖВңAnd that one thing, your lost child.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the major, taking a second biscuit, ГўВҖВңthat consummation of my
happiness was indeed wanting.ГўВҖВқ The worthy major raised his eyes to
heaven and sighed.

ГўВҖВңLet me hear, then,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңwho this deeply regretted son
was; for I always understood you were a bachelor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat was the general opinion, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңand IГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңand you confirmed the report. A youthful
indiscretion, I suppose, which you were anxious to conceal from the
world at large?ГўВҖВқ

The major recovered himself, and resumed his usual calm manner, at the
same time casting his eyes down, either to give himself time to compose
his countenance, or to assist his imagination, all the while giving an
under-look at the count, the protracted smile on whose lips still
announced the same polite curiosity.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңI did wish this fault to be hidden from every
eye.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot on your own account, surely,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңfor a man is
above that sort of thing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, certainly not on my own account,ГўВҖВқ said the major with a smile
and a shake of the head.

ГўВҖВңBut for the sake of the mother?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңYes, for the motherГўВҖВҷs sakeГўВҖВ”his poor mother!ГўВҖВқ cried the major, taking a
third biscuit.

ГўВҖВңTake some more wine, my dear Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ said the count, pouring out
for him a second glass of Alicante; ГўВҖВңyour emotion has quite overcome
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis poor mother,ГўВҖВқ murmured the major, trying to get the lachrymal
gland in operation, so as to moisten the corner of his eye with a false
tear.

ГўВҖВңShe belonged to one of the first families in Italy, I think, did she
not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe was of a noble family of Fiesole, count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd her name wasГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you desire to know her nameГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңit would be quite superfluous for you to tell
me, for I already know it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe count knows everything,ГўВҖВқ said the Italian, bowing.

ГўВҖВңOliva Corsinari, was it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOliva Corsinari!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA marchioness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA marchioness!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you married her at last, notwithstanding the opposition of her
family?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, that was the way it ended.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you have doubtless brought all your papers with you?ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWhat papers?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe certificate of your marriage with Oliva Corsinari, and the
register of your childГўВҖВҷs birth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe register of my childГўВҖВҷs birth?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe register of the birth of Andrea CavalcantiГўВҖВ”of your son; is not his
name Andrea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe so,ГўВҖВқ said the major.

ГўВҖВңWhat? You believe so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI dare not positively assert it, as he has been lost for so long a
time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңyou have all the documents with you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency, I regret to say that, not knowing it was necessary to
come provided with these papers, I neglected to bring them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is unfortunate,ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWere they, then, so necessary?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey were indispensable.ГўВҖВқ

The major passed his hand across his brow. ГўВҖВңAh, _perbacco_,
indispensable, were they?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly they were; supposing there were to be doubts raised as to
the validity of your marriage or the legitimacy of your child?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңthere might be doubts raised.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn that case your son would be very unpleasantly situated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt would be fatal to his interests.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt might cause him to fail in some desirable matrimonial alliance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_O peccato!_ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must know that in France they are very particular on these points;
it is not sufficient, as in Italy, to go to the priest and say, ГўВҖВҳWe
love each other, and want you to marry us.ГўВҖВҷ Marriage is a civil affair
in France, and in order to marry in an orthodox manner you must have
papers which undeniably establish your identity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is the misfortune! You see I have not these necessary papers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFortunately, I have them, though,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYou?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВқ said the major, who, seeing the object of his journey
frustrated by the absence of the papers, feared also that his
forgetfulness might give rise to some difficulty concerning the 48,000
francsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңah, indeed, that is a fortunate circumstance; yes, that really
is lucky, for it never occurred to me to bring them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not at all wonder at itГўВҖВ”one cannot think of everything; but,
happily, the AbbГғВ© Busoni thought for you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is an excellent person.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is extremely prudent and thoughtful.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is an admirable man,ГўВҖВқ said the major; ГўВҖВңand he sent them to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere they are.ГўВҖВқ

The major clasped his hands in token of admiration.

ГўВҖВңYou married Oliva Corsinari in the church of San Paolo del
Monte-Cattini; here is the priestГўВҖВҷs certificate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes indeed, there it is truly,ГўВҖВқ said the Italian, looking on with
astonishment.

ГўВҖВңAnd here is Andrea CavalcantiГўВҖВҷs baptismal register, given by the curГғВ©
of Saravezza.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll quite correct.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake these documents, then; they do not concern me. You will give them
to your son, who will, of course, take great care of them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should think so, indeed! If he were to lose themГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, and if he were to lose them?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңIn that case,ГўВҖВқ replied the major, ГўВҖВңit would be necessary to write to
the curГғВ© for duplicates, and it would be some time before they could be
obtained.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt would be a difficult matter to arrange,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңAlmost an impossibility,ГўВҖВқ replied the major.

ГўВҖВңI am very glad to see that you understand the value of these papers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI regard them as invaluable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңas to the mother of the young manГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs to the mother of the young manГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ repeated the Italian, with
anxiety.

ГўВҖВңAs regards the Marchesa CorsinariГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңdifficulties seem to thicken upon us; will
she be wanted in any way?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbesides, has she notГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңshe hasГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

30127m



ГўВҖВңPaid the last debt of nature?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, yes,ГўВҖВқ returned the Italian.

ГўВҖВңI knew that,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңshe has been dead these ten years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I am still mourning her loss,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the major, drawing from
his pocket a checked handkerchief, and alternately wiping first the
left and then the right eye.

ГўВҖВңWhat would you have?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңwe are all mortal. Now, you
understand, my dear Monsieur Cavalcanti, that it is useless for you to
tell people in France that you have been separated from your son for
fifteen years. Stories of gypsies, who steal children, are not at all
in vogue in this part of the world, and would not be believed. You sent
him for his education to a college in one of the provinces, and now you
wish him to complete his education in the Parisian world. That is the
reason which has induced you to leave Via Reggio, where you have lived
since the death of your wife. That will be sufficient.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou think so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf they should hear of the separationГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes; what could I say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat an unfaithful tutor, bought over by the enemies of your familyГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the Corsinari?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely. Had stolen away this child, in order that your name might
become extinct.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is reasonable, since he is an only son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, now that all is arranged, do not let these newly awakened
remembrances be forgotten. You have, doubtless, already guessed that I
was preparing a surprise for you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn agreeable one?ГўВҖВқ asked the Italian.

ГўВҖВңAh, I see the eye of a father is no more to be deceived than his
heart.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHum!ГўВҖВқ said the major.

ГўВҖВңSomeone has told you the secret; or, perhaps, you guessed that he was
here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat who was here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour childГўВҖВ”your sonГўВҖВ”your Andrea!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did guess it,ГўВҖВқ replied the major with the greatest possible
coolness. ГўВҖВңThen he is here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңwhen the valet de chambre came in just
now, he told me of his arrival.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, very well, very well,ГўВҖВқ said the major, clutching the buttons of
his coat at each exclamation.

ГўВҖВңMy dear sir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI understand your emotion; you must
have time to recover yourself. I will, in the meantime, go and prepare
the young man for this much-desired interview, for I presume that he is
not less impatient for it than yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should quite imagine that to be the case,ГўВҖВқ said Cavalcanti.

ГўВҖВңWell, in a quarter of an hour he shall be with you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will bring him, then? You carry your goodness so far as even to
present him to me yourself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; I do not wish to come between a father and son. Your interview
will be private. But do not be uneasy; even if the powerful voice of
nature should be silent, you cannot well mistake him; he will enter by
this door. He is a fine young man, of fair complexionГўВҖВ”a little too
fair, perhapsГўВҖВ”pleasing in manners; but you will see and judge for
yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the way,ГўВҖВқ said the major, ГўВҖВңyou know I have only the 2,000 francs
which the AbbГғВ© Busoni sent me; this sum I have expended upon travelling
expenses, andГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you want money; that is a matter of course, my dear M. Cavalcanti.
Well, here are 8,000 francs on account.ГўВҖВқ

The majorГўВҖВҷs eyes sparkled brilliantly.

ГўВҖВңIt is 40,000 francs which I now owe you,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңDoes your excellency wish for a receipt?ГўВҖВқ said the major, at the same
time slipping the money into the inner pocket of his coat.

ГўВҖВңFor what?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңI thought you might want it to show the AbbГғВ© Busoni.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, when you receive the remaining 40,000, you shall give me a
receipt in full. Between honest men such excessive precaution is, I
think, quite unnecessary.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, so it is, between perfectly upright people.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne word more,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңSay on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will permit me to make one remark?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; pray do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I should advise you to leave off wearing that style of dress.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ said the major, regarding himself with an air of complete
satisfaction.

ГўВҖВңYes. It may be worn at Via Reggio; but that costume, however elegant
in itself, has long been out of fashion in Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs unfortunate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, if you really are attached to your old mode of dress; you can
easily resume it when you leave Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what shall I wear?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat you find in your trunks.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn my trunks? I have but one portmanteau.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI dare say you have nothing else with you. What is the use of boring
oneГўВҖВҷs self with so many things? Besides an old soldier always likes to
march with as little baggage as possible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is just the caseГўВҖВ”precisely so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you are a man of foresight and prudence, therefore you sent your
luggage on before you. It has arrived at the HГғВҙtel des Princes, Rue de
Richelieu. It is there you are to take up your quarters.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, in these trunksГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI presume you have given orders to your valet de chambre to put in all
you are likely to need,ГўВҖВ”your plain clothes and your uniform. On grand
occasions you must wear your uniform; that will look very well. Do not
forget your crosses. They still laugh at them in France, and yet always
wear them, for all that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, very well,ГўВҖВқ said the major, who was in ecstasy at the
attention paid him by the count.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat you have fortified yourself against all
painful excitement, prepare yourself, my dear M. Cavalcanti, to meet
your lost Andrea.ГўВҖВқ

Saying which Monte Cristo bowed, and disappeared behind the tapestry,
leaving the major fascinated beyond expression with the delightful
reception which he had received at the hands of the count.



 Chapter 56. Andrea Cavalcanti

The Count of Monte Cristo entered the adjoining room, which Baptistin
had designated as the drawing-room, and found there a young man, of
graceful demeanor and elegant appearance, who had arrived in a cab
about half an hour previously. Baptistin had not found any difficulty
in recognizing the person who presented himself at the door for
admittance. He was certainly the tall young man with light hair, red
beard, black eyes, and brilliant complexion, whom his master had so
particularly described to him. When the count entered the room the
young man was carelessly stretched on a sofa, tapping his boot with the
gold-headed cane which he held in his hand. On perceiving the count he
rose quickly.

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo, I believe?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir, and I think I have the honor of addressing Count Andrea
Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount Andrea Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ repeated the young man, accompanying his
words with a bow.

ГўВҖВңYou are charged with a letter of introduction addressed to me, are you
not?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңI did not mention that, because the signature seemed to me so
strange.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe letter signed ГўВҖВҳSinbad the Sailor,ГўВҖВҷ is it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly so. Now, as I have never known any Sinbad, with the exception
of the one celebrated in the _Thousand and One Nights_ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, it is one of his descendants, and a great friend of mine; he is
a very rich Englishman, eccentric almost to insanity, and his real name
is Lord Wilmore.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed? Then that explains everything that is extraordinary,ГўВҖВқ said
Andrea. ГўВҖВңHe is, then, the same Englishman whom I metГўВҖВ”atГўВҖВ”ahГўВҖВ”yes, indeed.
Well, monsieur, I am at your service.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf what you say be true,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, smiling, ГўВҖВңperhaps you
will be kind enough to give me some account of yourself and your
family?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, I will do so,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, with a quickness which
gave proof of his ready invention. ГўВҖВңI am (as you have said) the Count
Andrea Cavalcanti, son of Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti, a descendant of
the Cavalcanti whose names are inscribed in the golden book at
Florence. Our family, although still rich (for my fatherГўВҖВҷs income
amounts to half a million), has experienced many misfortunes, and I
myself was, at the age of five years, taken away by the treachery of my
tutor, so that for fifteen years I have not seen the author of my
existence. Since I have arrived at years of discretion and become my
own master, I have been constantly seeking him, but all in vain. At
length I received this letter from your friend, which states that my
father is in Paris, and authorizes me to address myself to you for
information respecting him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, all you have related to me is exceedingly interesting,ГўВҖВқ said
Monte Cristo, observing the young man with a gloomy satisfaction; ГўВҖВңand
you have done well to conform in everything to the wishes of my friend
Sinbad; for your father is indeed here, and is seeking you.ГўВҖВқ

The count from the moment of first entering the drawing-room, had not
once lost sight of the expression of the young manГўВҖВҷs countenance; he
had admired the assurance of his look and the firmness of his voice;
but at these words, so natural in themselves, ГўВҖВңYour father is indeed
here, and is seeking you,ГўВҖВқ young Andrea started, and exclaimed, ГўВҖВңMy
father? Is my father here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMost undoubtedly,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңyour father, Major
Bartolomeo Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ The expression of terror which, for the moment,
had overspread the features of the young man, had now disappeared.

ГўВҖВңAh, yes, that is the name, certainly. Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti. And
you really mean to say; monsieur, that my dear father is here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir; and I can even add that I have only just left his company.
The history which he related to me of his lost son touched me to the
quick; indeed, his griefs, hopes, and fears on that subject might
furnish material for a most touching and pathetic poem. At length, he
one day received a letter, stating that the abductors of his son now
offered to restore him, or at least to give notice where he might be
found, on condition of receiving a large sum of money, by way of
ransom. Your father did not hesitate an instant, and the sum was sent
to the frontier of Piedmont, with a passport signed for Italy. You were
in the south of France, I think?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea, with an embarrassed air, ГўВҖВңI was in the south of
France.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA carriage was to await you at Nice?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely so; and it conveyed me from Nice to Genoa, from Genoa to
Turin, from Turin to ChambГғВ©ry, from ChambГғВ©ry to Pont-de-Beauvoisin, and
from Pont-de-Beauvoisin to Paris.ГўВҖВқ

30133m



ГўВҖВңIndeed? Then your father ought to have met with you on the road, for
it is exactly the same route which he himself took, and that is how we
have been able to trace your journey to this place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңif my father had met me, I doubt if he would have
recognized me; I must be somewhat altered since he last saw me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, the voice of nature,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ interrupted the young man, ГўВҖВңI had not looked upon it in that
light.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңthere is only one source of uneasiness
left in your fatherГўВҖВҷs mind, which is thisГўВҖВ”he is anxious to know how you
have been employed during your long absence from him, how you have been
treated by your persecutors, and if they have conducted themselves
towards you with all the deference due to your rank. Finally, he is
anxious to see if you have been fortunate enough to escape the bad
moral influence to which you have been exposed, and which is infinitely
more to be dreaded than any physical suffering; he wishes to discover
if the fine abilities with which nature had endowed you have been
weakened by want of culture; and, in short, whether you consider
yourself capable of resuming and retaining in the world the high
position to which your rank entitles you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young man, quite astounded, ГўВҖВңI hope no false
reportГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs for myself, I first heard you spoken of by my friend Wilmore, the
philanthropist. I believe he found you in some unpleasant position, but
do not know of what nature, for I did not ask, not being inquisitive.
Your misfortunes engaged his sympathies, so you see you must have been
interesting. He told me that he was anxious to restore you to the
position which you had lost, and that he would seek your father until
he found him. He did seek, and has found him, apparently, since he is
here now; and, finally, my friend apprised me of your coming, and gave
me a few other instructions relative to your future fortune. I am quite
aware that my friend Wilmore is peculiar, but he is sincere, and as
rich as a gold mine, consequently, he may indulge his eccentricities
without any fear of their ruining him, and I have promised to adhere to
his instructions. Now, sir, pray do not be offended at the question I
am about to put to you, as it comes in the way of my duty as your
patron. I would wish to know if the misfortunes which have happened to
youГўВҖВ”misfortunes entirely beyond your control, and which in no degree
diminish my regard for youГўВҖВ”I would wish to know if they have not, in
some measure, contributed to render you a stranger to the world in
which your fortune and your name entitle you to make a conspicuous
figure?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ returned the young man, with a reassurance of manner, ГўВҖВңmake your
mind easy on this score. Those who took me from my father, and who
always intended, sooner or later, to sell me again to my original
proprietor, as they have now done, calculated that, in order to make
the most of their bargain, it would be politic to leave me in
possession of all my personal and hereditary worth, and even to
increase the value, if possible. I have, therefore, received a very
good education, and have been treated by these kidnappers very much as
the slaves were treated in Asia Minor, whose masters made them
grammarians, doctors, and philosophers, in order that they might fetch
a higher price in the Roman market.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo smiled with satisfaction; it appeared as if he had not
expected so much from M. Andrea Cavalcanti.

ГўВҖВңBesides,ГўВҖВқ continued the young man, ГўВҖВңif there did appear some defect in
education, or offence against the established forms of etiquette, I
suppose it would be excused, in consideration of the misfortunes which
accompanied my birth, and followed me through my youth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo in an indifferent tone, ГўВҖВңyou will do as you
please, count, for you are the master of your own actions, and are the
person most concerned in the matter, but if I were you, I would not
divulge a word of these adventures. Your history is quite a romance,
and the world, which delights in romances in yellow covers, strangely
mistrusts those which are bound in living parchment, even though they
be gilded like yourself. This is the kind of difficulty which I wished
to represent to you, my dear count. You would hardly have recited your
touching history before it would go forth to the world, and be deemed
unlikely and unnatural. You would be no longer a lost child found, but
you would be looked upon as an upstart, who had sprung up like a
mushroom in the night. You might excite a little curiosity, but it is
not everyone who likes to be made the centre of observation and the
subject of unpleasant remark.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI agree with you, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, turning pale, and, in
spite of himself, trembling beneath the scrutinizing look of his
companion, ГўВҖВңsuch consequences would be extremely unpleasant.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNevertheless, you must not exaggerate the evil,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo,
ГўВҖВңfor by endeavoring to avoid one fault you will fall into another. You
must resolve upon one simple and single line of conduct, and for a man
of your intelligence, this plan is as easy as it is necessary; you must
form honorable friendships, and by that means counteract the prejudice
which may attach to the obscurity of your former life.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea visibly changed countenance.

ГўВҖВңI would offer myself as your surety and friendly adviser,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo, ГўВҖВңdid I not possess a moral distrust of my best friends, and a
sort of inclination to lead others to doubt them too; therefore, in
departing from this rule, I should (as the actors say) be playing a
part quite out of my line, and should, therefore, run the risk of being
hissed, which would be an act of folly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHowever, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңin consideration of Lord
Wilmore, by whom I was recommended to youГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, certainly,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut Lord Wilmore did not
omit to inform me, my dear M. Andrea, that the season of your youth was
rather a stormy one. Ah,ГўВҖВқ said the count, watching AndreaГўВҖВҷs
countenance, ГўВҖВңI do not demand any confession from you; it is precisely
to avoid that necessity that your father was sent for from Lucca. You
shall soon see him. He is a little stiff and pompous in his manner, and
he is disfigured by his uniform; but when it becomes known that he has
been for eighteen years in the Austrian service, all that will be
pardoned. We are not generally very severe with the Austrians. In
short, you will find your father a very presentable person, I assure
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, sir, you have given me confidence; it is so long since we were
separated, that I have not the least remembrance of him, and, besides,
you know that in the eyes of the world a large fortune covers all
defects.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is a millionaireГўВҖВ”his income is 500,000 francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, with anxiety, ГўВҖВңI shall be sure to be placed
in an agreeable position.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne of the most agreeable possible, my dear sir; he will allow you an
income of 50,000 livres per annum during the whole time of your stay in
Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen in that case I shall always choose to remain there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou cannot control circumstances, my dear sir; ГўВҖВҳman proposes, and God
disposes.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ Andrea sighed.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңso long as I do remain in Paris, and nothing forces me
to quit it, do you mean to tell me that I may rely on receiving the sum
you just now mentioned to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou may.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I receive it from my father?ГўВҖВқ asked Andrea, with some
uneasiness.

ГўВҖВңYes, you will receive it from your father personally, but Lord Wilmore
will be the security for the money. He has, at the request of your
father, opened an account of 5,000 francs a month at M. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ,
which is one of the safest banks in Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd does my father mean to remain long in Paris?ГўВҖВқ asked Andrea.

ГўВҖВңOnly a few days,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңHis service does not allow
him to absent himself more than two or three weeks together.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear father!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Andrea, evidently charmed with the idea
of his speedy departure.

ГўВҖВңTherefore,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo feigning to mistake his
meaningГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңtherefore I will not, for another instant, retard the pleasure
of your meeting. Are you prepared to embrace your worthy father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hope you do not doubt it.ГўВҖВқ

30137m



ГўВҖВңGo, then, into the drawing-room, my young friend, where you will find
your father awaiting you.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea made a low bow to the count, and entered the adjoining room.
Monte Cristo watched him till he disappeared, and then touched a spring
in a panel made to look like a picture, which, in sliding partly from
the frame, discovered to view a small opening, so cleverly contrived
that it revealed all that was passing in the drawing-room now occupied
by Cavalcanti and Andrea. The young man closed the door behind him, and
advanced towards the major, who had risen when he heard steps
approaching him.

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear father!ГўВҖВқ said Andrea in a loud voice, in order that the
count might hear him in the next room, ГўВҖВңis it really you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow do you do, my dear son?ГўВҖВқ said the major gravely.

ГўВҖВңAfter so many years of painful separation,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, in the same
tone of voice, and glancing towards the door, ГўВҖВңwhat a happiness it is
to meet again!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed it is, after so long a separation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you not embrace me, sir?ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

30139m



ГўВҖВңIf you wish it, my son,ГўВҖВқ said the major; and the two men embraced each
other after the fashion of actors on the stage; that is to say, each
rested his head on the otherГўВҖВҷs shoulder.

ГўВҖВңThen we are once more reunited?ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңOnce more,ГўВҖВқ replied the major.

ГўВҖВңNever more to be separated?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, as to thatГўВҖВ”I think, my dear son, you must be by this time so
accustomed to France as to look upon it almost as a second country.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe fact is,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңthat I should be exceedingly
grieved to leave it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs for me, you must know I cannot possibly live out of Lucca;
therefore I shall return to Italy as soon as I can.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut before you leave France, my dear father, I hope you will put me in
possession of the documents which will be necessary to prove my
descent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; I am come expressly on that account; it has cost me much
trouble to find you, but I had resolved on giving them into your hands,
and if I had to recommence my search, it would occupy all the few
remaining years of my life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere are these papers, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere they are.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea seized the certificate of his fatherГўВҖВҷs marriage and his own
baptismal register, and after having opened them with all the eagerness
which might be expected under the circumstances, he read them with a
facility which proved that he was accustomed to similar documents, and
with an expression which plainly denoted an unusual interest in the
contents. When he had perused the documents, an indefinable expression
of pleasure lighted up his countenance, and looking at the major with a
most peculiar smile, he said, in very excellent Tuscan:

ГўВҖВңThen there is no longer any such thing, in Italy as being condemned to
the galleys?ГўВҖВқ

The major drew himself up to his full height.

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВ”what do you mean by that question?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean that if there were, it would be impossible to draw up with
impunity two such deeds as these. In France, my dear sir, half such a
piece of effrontery as that would cause you to be quickly despatched to
Toulon for five years, for change of air.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you be good enough to explain your meaning?ГўВҖВқ said the major,
endeavoring as much as possible to assume an air of the greatest
majesty.

ГўВҖВңMy dear M. Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, taking the major by the arm in a
confidential manner, ГўВҖВңhow much are you paid for being my father?ГўВҖВқ

The major was about to speak, when Andrea continued, in a low voice:

ГўВҖВңNonsense, I am going to set you an example of confidence, they give me
50,000 francs a year to be your son; consequently, you can understand
that it is not at all likely I shall ever deny my parent.ГўВҖВқ

The major looked anxiously around him.

ГўВҖВңMake yourself easy, we are quite alone,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea; ГўВҖВңbesides, we are
conversing in Italian.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then,ГўВҖВқ replied the major, ГўВҖВңthey paid me 50,000 francs down.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңdo you believe in fairy tales?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI used not to do so, but I really feel now almost obliged to have
faith in them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have, then, been induced to alter your opinion; you have had some
proofs of their truth?ГўВҖВқ The major drew from his pocket a handful of
gold.

ГўВҖВңMost palpable proofs,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңas you may perceive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou think, then, that I may rely on the countГўВҖВҷs promises?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly I do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are sure he will keep his word with me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the letter, but at the same time, remember, we must continue to
play our respective parts. I, as a tender fatherГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I as a dutiful son, as they choose that I shall be descended from
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhom do you mean by they?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, I can hardly tell, but I was alluding to those who wrote the
letter; you received one, did you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom a certain AbbГғВ© Busoni.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you any knowledge of him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I have never seen him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did he say in the letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will promise not to betray me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRest assured of that; you well know that our interests are the same.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen read for yourself;ГўВҖВқ and the major gave a letter into the young
manГўВҖВҷs hand. Andrea read in a low voice:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYou are poor; a miserable old age awaits you. Would you like to
become rich, or at least independent? Set out immediately for Paris,
and demand of the Count of Monte Cristo, Avenue des Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, No.
30, the son whom you had by the Marchesa Corsinari, and who was taken
from you at five years of age. This son is named Andrea Cavalcanti. In
order that you may not doubt the kind intention of the writer of this
letter, you will find enclosed an order for 2,400 francs, payable in
Florence, at Signor GozziГўВҖВҷs; also a letter of introduction to the Count
of Monte Cristo, on whom I give you a draft of 48,000 francs. Remember
to go to the count on the 26th May at seven oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening.


ГўВҖВң(Signed) ГўВҖВҳAbbГғВ© Busoni.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ


ГўВҖВңIt is the same.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ said the major.

ГўВҖВңI was going to say that I received a letter almost to the same
effect.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom the AbbГғВ© Busoni?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom whom, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom an Englishman, called Lord Wilmore, who takes the name of Sinbad
the Sailor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd of whom you have no more knowledge than I of the AbbГғВ© Busoni?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken; there I am ahead of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have seen him, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is just what I cannot tell you; if I did, I should make you
as wise as myself, which it is not my intention to do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did the letter contain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRead it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYou are poor, and your future prospects are dark and gloomy. Do you
wish for a name? should you like to be rich, and your own master?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ


ГўВҖВң_Parbleu!_ГўВҖВқ said the young man; ГўВҖВңwas it possible there could be two
answers to such a question?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTake the post-chaise which you will find waiting at the Porte de
GГғВӘnes, as you enter Nice; pass through Turin, ChambГғВ©ry, and
Pont-de-Beauvoisin. Go to the Count of Monte Cristo, Avenue des
Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, on the 26th of May, at seven oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening,
and demand of him your father. You are the son of the Marchese
Cavalcanti and the Marchesa Oliva Corsinari. The marquis will give you
some papers which will certify this fact, and authorize you to appear
under that name in the Parisian world. As to your rank, an annual
income of 50,000 livres will enable you to support it admirably. I
enclose a draft for 5,000 livres, payable on M. Ferrea, banker at Nice,
and also a letter of introduction to the Count of Monte Cristo, whom I
have directed to supply all your wants.


ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳSinbad the Sailor.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ


ГўВҖВңHumph,ГўВҖВқ said the major; ГўВҖВңvery good. You have seen the count, you say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have only just left him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd has he conformed to all that the letter specified?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you understand it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot in the least.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is a dupe somewhere.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt all events, it is neither you nor I.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, thenГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, it does not much concern us, do you think it does?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; I agree with you there. We must play the game to the end, and
consent to be blindfolded.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you shall see; I promise you I will sustain my part to
admiration.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI never once doubted your doing so.ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo chose this moment
for re-entering the drawing-room. On hearing the sound of his
footsteps, the two men threw themselves in each otherГўВҖВҷs arms, and while
they were in the midst of this embrace, the count entered.

ГўВҖВңWell, marquis,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou appear to be in no way
disappointed in the son whom your good fortune has restored to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, your excellency, I am overwhelmed with delight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what are your feelings?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, turning to the young
man.

ГўВҖВңAs for me, my heart is overflowing with happiness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHappy father, happy son!ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңThere is only one thing which grieves me,ГўВҖВқ observed the major, ГўВҖВңand
that is the necessity for my leaving Paris so soon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear M. Cavalcanti, I trust you will not leave before I have
had the honor of presenting you to some of my friends.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am at your service, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the major.

ГўВҖВңNow, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, addressing Andrea, ГўВҖВңmake your
confession.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell M. Cavalcanti something of the state of your finances.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ monsieur, you have touched upon a tender chord.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you hear what he says, major?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly I do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut do you understand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour son says he requires money.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what would you have me do?ГўВҖВқ said the major.

ГўВҖВңYou should furnish him with some of course,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you,ГўВҖВқ said the count, at the same time advancing towards Andrea,
and slipping a packet of bank-notes into the young manГўВҖВҷs hand.

ГўВҖВңWhat is this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is from your father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom my father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; did you not tell him just now that you wanted money? Well, then,
he deputes me to give you this.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAm I to consider this as part of my income on account?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, it is for the first expenses of your settling in Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, how good my dear father is!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSilence,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңhe does not wish you to know that it
comes from him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI fully appreciate his delicacy,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, cramming the notes
hastily into his pocket.

ГўВҖВңAnd now, gentlemen, I wish you good-morning,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңAnd when shall we have the honor of seeing you again, your
excellency?ГўВҖВқ asked Cavalcanti.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңwhen may we hope for that pleasure?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn Saturday, if you willГўВҖВ”Yes.ГўВҖВ”Let me seeГўВҖВ”SaturdayГўВҖВ”I am to dine at my
country house, at Auteuil, on that day, Rue de la Fontaine, No. 28.
Several persons are invited, and among others, M. Danglars, your
banker. I will introduce you to him, for it will be necessary he should
know you, as he is to pay your money.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFull dress?ГўВҖВқ said the major, half aloud.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, certainly,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңuniform, cross, knee-breeches.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how shall I be dressed?ГўВҖВқ demanded Andrea.

30145m



ГўВҖВңOh, very simply; black trousers, patent leather boots, white
waistcoat, either a black or blue coat, and a long cravat. Go to Blin
or VГғВ©ronique for your clothes. Baptistin will tell you where, if you do
not know their address. The less pretension there is in your attire,
the better will be the effect, as you are a rich man. If you mean to
buy any horses, get them of Devedeux, and if you purchase a phaeton, go
to Baptiste for it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt what hour shall we come?ГўВҖВқ asked the young man.

ГўВҖВңAbout half-past six.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe will be with you at that time,ГўВҖВқ said the major. The two Cavalcanti
bowed to the count, and left the house. Monte Cristo went to the
window, and saw them crossing the street, arm in arm.

ГўВҖВңThere go two miscreants;ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңit is a pity they are not really
related!ГўВҖВқ Then, after an instant of gloomy reflection, ГўВҖВңCome, I will go
to see the Morrels,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңI think that disgust is even more
sickening than hatred.ГўВҖВқ

30147m




 Chapter 57. In the Lucern Patch

Our readers must now allow us to transport them again to the enclosure
surrounding M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs house, and, behind the gate, half
screened from view by the large chestnut-trees, which on all sides
spread their luxuriant branches, we shall find some people of our
acquaintance. This time Maximilian was the first to arrive. He was
intently watching for a shadow to appear among the trees, and awaiting
with anxiety the sound of a light step on the gravel walk.

At length, the long-desired sound was heard, and instead of one figure,
as he had expected, he perceived that two were approaching him. The
delay had been occasioned by a visit from Madame Danglars and EugГғВ©nie,
which had been prolonged beyond the time at which Valentine was
expected. That she might not appear to fail in her promise to
Maximilian, she proposed to Mademoiselle Danglars that they should take
a walk in the garden, being anxious to show that the delay, which was
doubtless a cause of vexation to him, was not occasioned by any neglect
on her part. The young man, with the intuitive perception of a lover,
quickly understood the circumstances in which she was involuntarily
placed, and he was comforted. Besides, although she avoided coming
within speaking distance, Valentine arranged so that Maximilian could
see her pass and repass, and each time she went by, she managed,
unperceived by her companion, to cast an expressive look at the young
man, which seemed to say, ГўВҖВңHave patience! You see it is not my fault.ГўВҖВқ

And Maximilian was patient, and employed himself in mentally
contrasting the two girls,ГўВҖВ”one fair, with soft languishing eyes, a
figure gracefully bending like a weeping willow; the other a brunette,
with a fierce and haughty expression, and as straight as a poplar. It
is unnecessary to state that, in the eyes of the young man, Valentine
did not suffer by the contrast. In about half an hour the girls went
away, and Maximilian understood that Mademoiselle DanglarsГўВҖВҷ visit had
at last come to an end. In a few minutes Valentine re-entered the
garden alone. For fear that anyone should be observing her return, she
walked slowly; and instead of immediately directing her steps towards
the gate, she seated herself on a bench, and, carefully casting her
eyes around, to convince herself that she was not watched, she
presently arose, and proceeded quickly to join Maximilian.

ГўВҖВңGood-evening, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said a well-known voice.

ГўВҖВңGood-evening, Maximilian; I know I have kept you waiting, but you saw
the cause of my delay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I recognized Mademoiselle Danglars. I was not aware that you were
so intimate with her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho told you we were intimate, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo one, but you appeared to be so. From the manner in which you walked
and talked together, one would have thought you were two school-girls
telling your secrets to each other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe were having a confidential conversation,ГўВҖВқ returned Valentine; ГўВҖВңshe
was owning to me her repugnance to the marriage with M. de Morcerf; and
I, on the other hand, was confessing to her how wretched it made me to
think of marrying M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDear Valentine!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat will account to you for the unreserved manner which you observed
between me and EugГғВ©nie, as in speaking of the man whom I could not
love, my thoughts involuntarily reverted to him on whom my affections
were fixed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, how good you are to say so, Valentine! You possess a quality which
can never belong to Mademoiselle Danglars. It is that indefinable charm
which is to a woman what perfume is to the flower and flavor to the
fruit, for the beauty of either is not the only quality we seek.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is your love which makes you look upon everything in that light.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, Valentine, I assure you such is not the case. I was observing you
both when you were walking in the garden, and, on my honor, without at
all wishing to depreciate the beauty of Mademoiselle Danglars, I cannot
understand how any man can really love her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe fact is, Maximilian, that I was there, and my presence had the
effect of rendering you unjust in your comparison.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; but tell meГўВҖВ”it is a question of simple curiosity, and which was
suggested by certain ideas passing in my mind relative to Mademoiselle
DanglarsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI dare say it is something disparaging which you are going to say. It
only proves how little indulgence we may expect from your sex,ГўВҖВқ
interrupted Valentine.

ГўВҖВңYou cannot, at least, deny that you are very harsh judges of each
other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf we are so, it is because we generally judge under the influence of
excitement. But return to your question.ГўВҖВқ

30151m



ГўВҖВңDoes Mademoiselle Danglars object to this marriage with M. de Morcerf
on account of loving another?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI told you I was not on terms of strict intimacy with EugГғВ©nie.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but girls tell each other secrets without being particularly
intimate; own, now, that you did question her on the subject. Ah, I see
you are smiling.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you are already aware of the conversation that passed, the wooden
partition which interposed between us and you has proved but a slight
security.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, what did she say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe told me that she loved no one,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңthat she disliked
the idea of being married; that she would infinitely prefer leading an
independent and unfettered life; and that she almost wished her father
might lose his fortune, that she might become an artist, like her
friend, Mademoiselle Louise dГўВҖВҷArmilly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you seeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what does that prove?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine.

ГўВҖВңNothing,ГўВҖВқ replied Maximilian.

ГўВҖВңThen why did you smile?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you know very well that you are reflecting on yourself,
Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you want me to go away?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, no, no. But do not let us lose time; you are the subject on which
I wish to speak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, we must be quick, for we have scarcely ten minutes more to pass
together.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, in consternation.

ГўВҖВңYes, you are right; I am but a poor friend to you. What a life I cause
you to lead, poor Maximilian, you who are formed for happiness! I
bitterly reproach myself, I assure you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what does it signify, Valentine, so long as I am satisfied, and
feel that even this long and painful suspense is amply repaid by five
minutes of your society, or two words from your lips? And I have also a
deep conviction that heaven would not have created two hearts,
harmonizing as ours do, and almost miraculously brought us together, to
separate us at last.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThose are kind and cheering words. You must hope for us both,
Maximilian; that will make me at least partly happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut why must you leave me so soon?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know particulars. I can only tell you that Madame de
Villefort sent to request my presence, as she had a communication to
make on which a part of my fortune depended. Let them take my fortune,
I am already too rich; and, perhaps, when they have taken it, they will
leave me in peace and quietness. You would love me as much if I were
poor, would you not, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I shall always love you. What should I care for either riches or
poverty, if my Valentine was near me, and I felt certain that no one
could deprive me of her? But do you not fear that this communication
may relate to your marriage?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not think that is the case.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHowever it may be, Valentine, you must not be alarmed. I assure you
that, as long as I live, I shall never love anyone else!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think to reassure me when you say that, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPardon me, you are right. I am a brute. But I was going to tell you
that I met M. de Morcerf the other day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Franz is his friend, you know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur de Morcerf has received a letter from Franz, announcing his
immediate return.ГўВҖВқ Valentine turned pale, and leaned her hand against
the gate.

ГўВҖВңAh heavens, if it were that! But no, the communication would not come
through Madame de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecauseГўВҖВ”I scarcely know whyГўВҖВ”but it has appeared as if Madame de
Villefort secretly objected to the marriage, although she did not
choose openly to oppose it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it so? Then I feel as if I could adore Madame de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not be in such a hurry to do that,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, with a sad
smile.

ГўВҖВңIf she objects to your marrying M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, she would be all the more
likely to listen to any other proposition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, Maximilian, it is not suitors to which Madame de Villefort
objects, it is marriage itself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMarriage? If she dislikes that so much, why did she ever marry
herself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not understand me, Maximilian. About a year ago, I talked of
retiring to a convent. Madame de Villefort, in spite of all the remarks
which she considered it her duty to make, secretly approved of the
proposition, my father consented to it at her instigation, and it was
only on account of my poor grandfather that I finally abandoned the
project. You can form no idea of the expression of that old manГўВҖВҷs eye
when he looks at me, the only person in the world whom he loves, and, I
had almost said, by whom he is beloved in return. When he learned my
resolution, I shall never forget the reproachful look which he cast on
me, and the tears of utter despair which chased each other down his
lifeless cheeks. Ah, Maximilian, I experienced, at that moment, such
remorse for my intention, that, throwing myself at his feet, I
exclaimed,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳForgive me, pray forgive me, my dear grandfather; they may
do what they will with me, I will never leave you.ГўВҖВҷ When I had ceased
speaking, he thankfully raised his eyes to heaven, but without uttering
a word. Ah, Maximilian, I may have much to suffer, but I feel as if my
grandfatherГўВҖВҷs look at that moment would more than compensate for all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDear Valentine, you are a perfect angel, and I am sure I do not know
what IГўВҖВ”sabring right and left among the BedouinsГўВҖВ”can have done to merit
your being revealed to me, unless, indeed, Heaven took into
consideration the fact that the victims of my sword were infidels. But
tell me what interest Madame de Villefort can have in your remaining
unmarried?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid I not tell you just now that I was rich, MaximilianГўВҖВ”too rich? I
possess nearly 50,000 livres in right of my mother; my grandfather and
my grandmother, the Marquis and Marquise de Saint-MГғВ©ran, will leave me
as much, and M. Noirtier evidently intends making me his heir. My
brother Edward, who inherits nothing from his mother, will, therefore,
be poor in comparison with me. Now, if I had taken the veil, all this
fortune would have descended to my father, and, in reversion, to his
son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, how strange it seems that such a young and beautiful woman should
be so avaricious.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not for herself that she is so, but for her son, and what you
regard as a vice becomes almost a virtue when looked at in the light of
maternal love.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut could you not compromise matters, and give up a portion of your
fortune to her son?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow could I make such a proposition, especially to a woman who always
professes to be so entirely disinterested?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine, I have always regarded our love in the light of something
sacred; consequently, I have covered it with the veil of respect, and
hid it in the innermost recesses of my soul. No human being, not even
my sister, is aware of its existence. Valentine, will you permit me to
make a confidant of a friend and reveal to him the love I bear you?ГўВҖВқ

Valentine started. ГўВҖВңA friend, Maximilian; and who is this friend? I
tremble to give my permission.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen, Valentine. Have you never experienced for anyone that sudden
and irresistible sympathy which made you feel as if the object of it
had been your old and familiar friend, though, in reality, it was the
first time you had ever met? Nay, further, have you never endeavored to
recall the time, place, and circumstances of your former intercourse,
and failing in this attempt, have almost believed that your spirits
must have held converse with each other in some state of being anterior
to the present, and that you are only now occupied in a reminiscence of
the past?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, that is precisely the feeling which I experienced when I first
saw that extraordinary man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExtraordinary, did you say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have known him for some time, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңScarcely longer than eight or ten days.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you call a man your friend whom you have only known for eight
or ten days? Ah, Maximilian, I had hoped you set a higher value on the
title of friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour logic is most powerful, Valentine, but say what you will, I can
never renounce the sentiment which has instinctively taken possession
of my mind. I feel as if it were ordained that this man should be
associated with all the good which the future may have in store for me,
and sometimes it really seems as if his eye was able to see what was to
come, and his hand endowed with the power of directing events according
to his own will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe must be a prophet, then,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, smiling.

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңI have often been almost tempted to
attribute to him the gift of prophecy; at all events, he has a
wonderful power of foretelling any future good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine in a mournful tone, ГўВҖВңdo let me see this man,
Maximilian; he may tell me whether I shall ever be loved sufficiently
to make amends for all I have suffered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy poor girl, you know him already.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; it was he who saved the life of your step-mother and her son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe same.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine, ГўВҖВңhe is too much the friend of Madame de
Villefort ever to be mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe friend of Madame de Villefort! It cannot be; surely, Valentine,
you are mistaken?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, indeed, I am not; for I assure you, his power over our household
is almost unlimited. Courted by my step-mother, who regards him as the
epitome of human wisdom; admired by my father, who says he has never
before heard such sublime ideas so eloquently expressed; idolized by
Edward, who, notwithstanding his fear of the countГўВҖВҷs large black eyes,
runs to meet him the moment he arrives, and opens his hand, in which he
is sure to find some delightful present,ГўВҖВ”M. de Monte Cristo appears to
exert a mysterious and almost uncontrollable influence over all the
members of our family.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf such be the case, my dear Valentine, you must yourself have felt,
or at all events will soon feel, the effects of his presence. He meets
Albert de Morcerf in ItalyГўВҖВ”it is to rescue him from the hands of the
banditti; he introduces himself to Madame DanglarsГўВҖВ”it is that he may
give her a royal present; your step-mother and her son pass before his
doorГўВҖВ”it is that his Nubian may save them from destruction. This man
evidently possesses the power of influencing events, both as regards
men and things. I never saw more simple tastes united to greater
magnificence. His smile is so sweet when he addresses me, that I forget
it ever can be bitter to others. Ah, Valentine, tell me, if he ever
looked on you with one of those sweet smiles? if so, depend on it, you
will be happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMe?ГўВҖВқ said the young girl, ГўВҖВңhe never even glances at me; on the
contrary, if I accidentally cross his path, he appears rather to avoid
me. Ah, he is not generous, neither does he possess that supernatural
penetration which you attribute to him, for if he did, he would have
perceived that I was unhappy; and if he had been generous, seeing me
sad and solitary, he would have used his influence to my advantage, and
since, as you say, he resembles the sun, he would have warmed my heart
with one of his life-giving rays. You say he loves you, Maximilian; how
do you know that he does? All would pay deference to an officer like
you, with a fierce moustache and a long sabre, but they think they may
crush a poor weeping girl with impunity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, Valentine, I assure you you are mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf it were otherwiseГўВҖВ”if he treated me diplomaticallyГўВҖВ”that is to say,
like a man who wishes, by some means or other, to obtain a footing in
the house, so that he may ultimately gain the power of dictating to its
occupantsГўВҖВ”he would, if it had been but once, have honored me with the
smile which you extol so loudly; but no, he saw that I was unhappy, he
understood that I could be of no use to him, and therefore paid no
attention to me whatever. Who knows but that, in order to please Madame
de Villefort and my father, he may not persecute me by every means in
his power? It is not just that he should despise me so, without any
reason. Ah, forgive me,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, perceiving the effect which
her words were producing on Maximilian: ГўВҖВңI have done wrong, for I have
given utterance to thoughts concerning that man which I did not even
know existed in my heart. I do not deny the influence of which you
speak, or that I have not myself experienced it, but with me it has
been productive of evil rather than good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel with a sigh, ГўВҖВңwe will not discuss the
matter further. I will not make a confidant of him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas!ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңI see that I have given you pain. I can only
say how sincerely I ask pardon for having grieved you. But, indeed, I
am not prejudiced beyond the power of conviction. Tell me what this
Count of Monte Cristo has done for you.ГўВҖВқ

30157m



ГўВҖВңI own that your question embarrasses me, Valentine, for I cannot say
that the count has rendered me any ostensible service. Still, as I have
already told you, I have an instinctive affection for him, the source
of which I cannot explain to you. Has the sun done anything for me? No;
he warms me with his rays, and it is by his light that I see
youГўВҖВ”nothing more. Has such and such a perfume done anything for me? No;
its odor charms one of my sensesГўВҖВ”that is all I can say when I am asked
why I praise it. My friendship for him is as strange and unaccountable
as his for me. A secret voice seems to whisper to me that there must be
something more than chance in this unexpected reciprocity of
friendship. In his most simple actions, as well as in his most secret
thoughts, I find a relation to my own. You will perhaps smile at me
when I tell you that, ever since I have known this man, I have
involuntarily entertained the idea that all the good fortune which has
befallen me originated from him. However, I have managed to live thirty
years without this protection, you will say; but I will endeavor a
little to illustrate my meaning. He invited me to dine with him on
Saturday, which was a very natural thing for him to do. Well, what have
I learned since? That your mother and M. de Villefort are both coming
to this dinner. I shall meet them there, and who knows what future
advantages may result from the interview? This may appear to you to be
no unusual combination of circumstances; nevertheless, I perceive some
hidden plot in the arrangementГўВҖВ”something, in fact, more than is
apparent on a casual view of the subject. I believe that this singular
man, who appears to fathom the motives of everyone, has purposely
arranged for me to meet M. and Madame de Villefort, and sometimes, I
confess, I have gone so far as to try to read in his eyes whether he
was in possession of the secret of our love.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy good friend,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңI should take you for a visionary,
and should tremble for your reason, if I were always to hear you talk
in a strain similar to this. Is it possible that you can see anything
more than the merest chance in this meeting? Pray reflect a little. My
father, who never goes out, has several times been on the point of
refusing this invitation; Madame de Villefort, on the contrary, is
burning with the desire of seeing this extraordinary nabob in his own
house, therefore, she has with great difficulty prevailed on my father
to accompany her. No, no; it is as I have said, Maximilian,ГўВҖВ”there is no
one in the world of whom I can ask help but yourself and my
grandfather, who is little better than a corpseГўВҖВ”no support to cling to
but my mother in heaven!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI see that you are right, logically speaking,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian; ГўВҖВңbut
the gentle voice which usually has such power over me fails to convince
me today.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI feel the same as regards yourself.ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңand I own that,
if you have no stronger proof to give meГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have another,ГўВҖВқ replied Maximilian; ГўВҖВңbut I fear you will deem it even
more absurd than the first.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the worse,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, smiling.

ГўВҖВңIt is, nevertheless, conclusive to my mind. My ten years of service
have also confirmed my ideas on the subject of sudden inspirations, for
I have several times owed my life to a mysterious impulse which
directed me to move at once either to the right or to the left, in
order to escape the ball which killed the comrade fighting by my side,
while it left me unharmed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDear Maximilian, why not attribute your escape to my constant prayers
for your safety? When you are away, I no longer pray for myself, but
for you.ГўВҖВқ

30159m



ГўВҖВңYes, since you have known me,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, smiling; ГўВҖВңbut that cannot
apply to the time previous to our acquaintance, Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are very provoking, and will not give me credit for anything; but
let me hear this second proof, which you yourself own to be absurd.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, look through this opening, and you will see the beautiful new
horse which I rode here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! what a beautiful creature!ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine; ГўВҖВңwhy did you not
bring him close to the gate, so that I could talk to him and pat him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is, as you see, a very valuable animal,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian. ГўВҖВңYou know
that my means are limited, and that I am what would be designated a man
of moderate pretensions. Well, I went to a horse dealerГўВҖВҷs, where I saw
this magnificent horse, which I have named MГғВ©dГғВ©ah. I asked the price;
they told me it was 4,500 francs. I was, therefore, obliged to give it
up, as you may imagine, but I own I went away with rather a heavy
heart, for the horse had looked at me affectionately, had rubbed his
head against me and, when I mounted him, had pranced in the most
delightful way imaginable, so that I was altogether fascinated with
him. The same evening some friends of mine visited me,ГўВҖВ”M. de
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, M. Debray, and five or six other choice spirits, whom
you do not know, even by name. They proposed a game of _bouillotte_. I
never play, for I am not rich enough to afford to lose, or sufficiently
poor to desire to gain. But I was at my own house, you understand, so
there was nothing to be done but to send for the cards, which I did.

ГўВҖВңJust as they were sitting down to table, M. de Monte Cristo arrived.
He took his seat amongst them; they played, and I won. I am almost
ashamed to say that my gains amounted to 5,000 francs. We separated at
midnight. I could not defer my pleasure, so I took a cabriolet and
drove to the horse dealerГўВҖВҷs. Feverish and excited, I rang at the door.
The person who opened it must have taken me for a madman, for I rushed
at once to the stable. MГғВ©dГғВ©ah was standing at the rack, eating his hay.
I immediately put on the saddle and bridle, to which operation he lent
himself with the best grace possible; then, putting the 4,500 francs
into the hands of the astonished dealer, I proceeded to fulfil my
intention of passing the night in riding in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es. As I
rode by the countГўВҖВҷs house I perceived a light in one of the windows,
and fancied I saw the shadow of his figure moving behind the curtain.
Now, Valentine, I firmly believe that he knew of my wish to possess
this horse, and that he lost expressly to give me the means of
procuring him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear Maximilian, you are really too fanciful; you will not love
even me long. A man who accustoms himself to live in such a world of
poetry and imagination must find far too little excitement in a common,
every-day sort of attachment such as ours. But they are calling me. Do
you hear?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңgive me but one finger through this
opening in the grating, one finger, the littlest finger of all, that I
may have the happiness of kissing it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMaximilian, we said we would be to each other as two voices, two
shadows.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs you will, Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall you be happy if I do what you wish?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes!ГўВҖВқ

Valentine mounted on a bench, and passed not only her finger but her
whole hand through the opening. Maximilian uttered a cry of delight,
and, springing forwards, seized the hand extended towards him, and
imprinted on it a fervent and impassioned kiss. The little hand was
then immediately withdrawn, and the young man saw Valentine hurrying
towards the house, as though she were almost terrified at her own
sensations.



 Chapter 58. M. Noirtier de Villefort

We will now relate what was passing in the house of the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney
after the departure of Madame Danglars and her daughter, and during the
time of the conversation between Maximilian and Valentine, which we
have just detailed.

M. de Villefort entered his fatherГўВҖВҷs room, followed by Madame de
Villefort. Both of the visitors, after saluting the old man and
speaking to Barrois, a faithful servant, who had been twenty-five years
in his service, took their places on either side of the paralytic.

M. Noirtier was sitting in an armchair, which moved upon casters, in
which he was wheeled into the room in the morning, and in the same way
drawn out again at night. He was placed before a large glass, which
reflected the whole apartment, and so, without any attempt to move,
which would have been impossible, he could see all who entered the room
and everything which was going on around him. M. Noirtier, although
almost as immovable as a corpse, looked at the new-comers with a quick
and intelligent expression, perceiving at once, by their ceremonious
courtesy, that they were come on business of an unexpected and official
character.

Sight and hearing were the only senses remaining, and they, like two
solitary sparks, remained to animate the miserable body which seemed
fit for nothing but the grave; it was only, however, by means of one of
these senses that he could reveal the thoughts and feelings that still
occupied his mind, and the look by which he gave expression to his
inner life was like the distant gleam of a candle which a traveller
sees by night across some desert place, and knows that a living being
dwells beyond the silence and obscurity.

NoirtierГўВҖВҷs hair was long and white, and flowed over his shoulders;
while in his eyes, shaded by thick black lashes, was concentrated, as
it often happens with an organ which is used to the exclusion of the
others, all the activity, address, force, and intelligence which were
formerly diffused over his whole body; and so although the movement of
the arm, the sound of the voice, and the agility of the body, were
wanting, the speaking eye sufficed for all. He commanded with it; it
was the medium through which his thanks were conveyed. In short, his
whole appearance produced on the mind the impression of a corpse with
living eyes, and nothing could be more startling than to observe the
expression of anger or joy suddenly lighting up these organs, while the
rest of the rigid and marble-like features were utterly deprived of the
power of participation. Three persons only could understand this
language of the poor paralytic; these were Villefort, Valentine, and
the old servant of whom we have already spoken. But as Villefort saw
his father but seldom, and then only when absolutely obliged, and as he
never took any pains to please or gratify him when he was there, all
the old manГўВҖВҷs happiness was centred in his granddaughter. Valentine, by
means of her love, her patience, and her devotion, had learned to read
in NoirtierГўВҖВҷs look all the varied feelings which were passing in his
mind. To this dumb language, which was so unintelligible to others, she
answered by throwing her whole soul into the expression of her
countenance, and in this manner were the conversations sustained
between the blooming girl and the helpless invalid, whose body could
scarcely be called a living one, but who, nevertheless, possessed a
fund of knowledge and penetration, united with a will as powerful as
ever although clogged by a body rendered utterly incapable of obeying
its impulses.

Valentine had solved the problem, and was able easily to understand his
thoughts, and to convey her own in return, and, through her untiring
and devoted assiduity, it was seldom that, in the ordinary transactions
of every-day life, she failed to anticipate the wishes of the living,
thinking mind, or the wants of the almost inanimate body.

As to the servant, he had, as we have said, been with his master for
five-and-twenty years, therefore he knew all his habits, and it was
seldom that Noirtier found it necessary to ask for anything, so prompt
was he in administering to all the necessities of the invalid.

Villefort did not need the help of either Valentine or the domestic in
order to carry on with his father the strange conversation which he was
about to begin. As we have said, he perfectly understood the old manГўВҖВҷs
vocabulary, and if he did not use it more often, it was only
indifference and _ennui_ which prevented him from so doing. He
therefore allowed Valentine to go into the garden, sent away Barrois,
and after having seated himself at his fatherГўВҖВҷs right hand, while
Madame de Villefort placed herself on the left, he addressed him thus:

ГўВҖВңI trust you will not be displeased, sir, that Valentine has not come
with us, or that I dismissed Barrois, for our conference will be one
which could not with propriety be carried on in the presence of either.
Madame de Villefort and I have a communication to make to you.ГўВҖВқ

NoirtierГўВҖВҷs face remained perfectly passive during this long preamble,
while, on the contrary, VillefortГўВҖВҷs eye was endeavoring to penetrate
into the inmost recesses of the old manГўВҖВҷs heart.

ГўВҖВңThis communication,ГўВҖВқ continued the procureur, in that cold and
decisive tone which seemed at once to preclude all discussion, ГўВҖВңwill,
we are sure, meet with your approbation.ГўВҖВқ

The eye of the invalid still retained that vacancy of expression which
prevented his son from obtaining any knowledge of the feelings which
were passing in his mind; he listened, nothing more.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ resumed Villefort, ГўВҖВңwe are thinking of marrying Valentine.ГўВҖВқ Had
the old manГўВҖВҷs face been moulded in wax it could not have shown less
emotion at this news than was now to be traced there. ГўВҖВңThe marriage
will take place in less than three months,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye still retained its inanimate expression.

Madame de Villefort now took her part in the conversation and added:

ГўВҖВңWe thought this news would possess an interest for you, sir, who have
always entertained a great affection for Valentine; it therefore only
now remains for us to tell you the name of the young man for whom she
is destined. It is one of the most desirable connections which could
possibly be formed; he possesses fortune, a high rank in society, and
every personal qualification likely to render Valentine supremely
happy,ГўВҖВ”his name, moreover, cannot be wholly unknown to you. It is M.
Franz de Quesnel, Baron dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ

While his wife was speaking, Villefort had narrowly watched the old
manГўВҖВҷs countenance. When Madame de Villefort pronounced the name of
Franz, the pupil of M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye began to dilate, and his eyelids
trembled with the same movement that may be perceived on the lips of an
individual about to speak, and he darted a lightning glance at Madame
de Villefort and his son. The procureur, who knew the political hatred
which had formerly existed between M. Noirtier and the elder dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay,
well understood the agitation and anger which the announcement had
produced; but, feigning not to perceive either, he immediately resumed
the narrative begun by his wife.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңyou are aware that Valentine is about to enter her
nineteenth year, which renders it important that she should lose no
time in forming a suitable alliance. Nevertheless, you have not been
forgotten in our plans, and we have fully ascertained beforehand that
ValentineГўВҖВҷs future husband will consent, not to live in this house, for
that might not be pleasant for the young people, but that you should
live with them; so that you and Valentine, who are so attached to each
other, would not be separated, and you would be able to pursue exactly
the same course of life which you have hitherto done, and thus, instead
of losing, you will be a gainer by the change, as it will secure to you
two children instead of one, to watch over and comfort you.ГўВҖВқ

30165m



NoirtierГўВҖВҷs look was furious; it was very evident that something
desperate was passing in the old manГўВҖВҷs mind, for a cry of anger and
grief rose in his throat, and not being able to find vent in utterance,
appeared almost to choke him, for his face and lips turned quite purple
with the struggle. Villefort quietly opened a window, saying, ГўВҖВңIt is
very warm, and the heat affects M. Noirtier.ГўВҖВқ He then returned to his
place, but did not sit down.

ГўВҖВңThis marriage,ГўВҖВқ added Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңis quite agreeable to the
wishes of M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay and his family; besides, he had no relations
nearer than an uncle and aunt, his mother having died at his birth, and
his father having been assassinated in 1815, that is to say, when he
was but two years old; it naturally followed that the child was
permitted to choose his own pursuits, and he has, therefore, seldom
acknowledged any other authority but that of his own will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat assassination was a mysterious affair,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңand the
perpetrators have hitherto escaped detection, although suspicion has
fallen on the head of more than one person.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier made such an effort that his lips expanded into a smile.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ continued Villefort, ГўВҖВңthose to whom the guilt really belongs, by
whom the crime was committed, on whose heads the justice of man may
probably descend here, and the certain judgment of God hereafter, would
rejoice in the opportunity thus afforded of bestowing such a
peace-offering as Valentine on the son of him whose life they so
ruthlessly destroyed.ГўВҖВқ Noirtier had succeeded in mastering his emotion
more than could have been deemed possible with such an enfeebled and
shattered frame.

ГўВҖВңYes, I understand,ГўВҖВқ was the reply contained in his look; and this look
expressed a feeling of strong indignation, mixed with profound
contempt. Villefort fully understood his fatherГўВҖВҷs meaning, and answered
by a slight shrug of his shoulders. He then motioned to his wife to
take leave.

ГўВҖВңNow sir,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңI must bid you farewell. Would
you like me to send Edward to you for a short time?ГўВҖВқ

It had been agreed that the old man should express his approbation by
closing his eyes, his refusal by winking them several times, and if he
had some desire or feeling to express, he raised them to heaven. If he
wanted Valentine, he closed his right eye only, and if Barrois, the
left. At Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs proposition he instantly winked his
eyes.

Provoked by a complete refusal, she bit her lip and said, ГўВҖВңThen shall I
send Valentine to you?ГўВҖВқ The old man closed his eyes eagerly, thereby
intimating that such was his wish.

M. and Madame de Villefort bowed and left the room, giving orders that
Valentine should be summoned to her grandfatherГўВҖВҷs presence, and feeling
sure that she would have much to do to restore calmness to the
perturbed spirit of the invalid. Valentine, with a color still
heightened by emotion, entered the room just after her parents had
quitted it. One look was sufficient to tell her that her grandfather
was suffering, and that there was much on his mind which he was wishing
to communicate to her.

ГўВҖВңDear grandpapa,ГўВҖВқ cried she, ГўВҖВңwhat has happened? They have vexed you,
and you are angry?ГўВҖВқ

The paralytic closed his eyes in token of assent.

ГўВҖВңWho has displeased you? Is it my father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMe?ГўВҖВқ The former sign was repeated.

ГўВҖВңAre you displeased with me?ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine in astonishment. M.
Noirtier again closed his eyes.

ГўВҖВңAnd what have I done, dear grandpapa, that you should be angry with
me?ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine.

There was no answer, and she continued:

ГўВҖВңI have not seen you all day. Has anyone been speaking to you against
me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the old manГўВҖВҷs look, with eagerness.

ГўВҖВңLet me think a moment. I do assure you, grandpapaГўВҖВ”AhГўВҖВ”M. and Madame de
Villefort have just left this room, have they not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd it was they who told you something which made you angry? What was
it then? May I go and ask them, that I may have the opportunity of
making my peace with you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ said NoirtierГўВҖВҷs look.

ГўВҖВңAh, you frighten me. What can they have said?ГўВҖВқ and she again tried to
think what it could be.

ГўВҖВңAh, I know,ГўВҖВқ said she, lowering her voice and going close to the old
man. ГўВҖВңThey have been speaking of my marriage,ГўВҖВ”have they not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the angry look.

ГўВҖВңI understand; you are displeased at the silence I have preserved on
the subject. The reason of it was, that they had insisted on my keeping
the matter a secret, and begged me not to tell you anything of it. They
did not even acquaint me with their intentions, and I only discovered
them by chance, that is why I have been so reserved with you, dear
grandpapa. Pray forgive me.ГўВҖВқ

But there was no look calculated to reassure her; all it seemed to say
was, ГўВҖВңIt is not only your reserve which afflicts me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it, then?ГўВҖВқ asked the young girl. ГўВҖВңPerhaps you think I shall
abandon you, dear grandpapa, and that I shall forget you when I am
married?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey told you, then, that M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay consented to our all living
together?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen why are you still vexed and grieved?ГўВҖВқ The old manГўВҖВҷs eyes beamed
with an expression of gentle affection.

ГўВҖВңYes, I understand,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңit is because you love me.ГўВҖВқ The
old man assented.

ГўВҖВңAnd you are afraid I shall be unhappy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not like M. Franz?ГўВҖВқ The eyes repeated several times, ГўВҖВңNo, no,
no.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you are vexed with the engagement?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, listen,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, throwing herself on her knees, and
putting her arm round her grandfatherГўВҖВҷs neck, ГўВҖВңI am vexed, too, for I
do not love M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ

An expression of intense joy illumined the old manГўВҖВҷs eyes.

ГўВҖВңWhen I wished to retire into a convent, you remember how angry you
were with me?ГўВҖВқ A tear trembled in the eye of the invalid. ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ
continued Valentine, ГўВҖВңthe reason of my proposing it was that I might
escape this hateful marriage, which drives me to despair.ГўВҖВқ NoirtierГўВҖВҷs
breathing came thick and short.

ГўВҖВңThen the idea of this marriage really grieves you too? Ah, if you
could but help meГўВҖВ”if we could both together defeat their plan! But you
are unable to oppose them,ГўВҖВ”you, whose mind is so quick, and whose will
is so firm are nevertheless, as weak and unequal to the contest as I am
myself. Alas, you, who would have been such a powerful protector to me
in the days of your health and strength, can now only sympathize in my
joys and sorrows, without being able to take any active part in them.
However, this is much, and calls for gratitude and Heaven has not taken
away all my blessings when it leaves me your sympathy and kindness.ГўВҖВқ

At these words there appeared in NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye an expression of such
deep meaning that the young girl thought she could read these words
there: ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken; I can still do much for you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think you can help me, dear grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ Noirtier raised his eyes, it was the sign agreed on between him
and Valentine when he wanted anything.

ГўВҖВңWhat is it you want, dear grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, and she
endeavored to recall to mind all the things which he would be likely to
need; and as the ideas presented themselves to her mind, she repeated
them aloud, then,ГўВҖВ”finding that all her efforts elicited nothing but a
constant _ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ_ГўВҖВ”she said, ГўВҖВңCome, since this plan does not answer, I
will have recourse to another.ГўВҖВқ

She then recited all the letters of the alphabet from A down to N. When
she arrived at that letter the paralytic made her understand that she
had spoken the initial letter of the thing he wanted.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңthe thing you desire begins with the letter N;
it is with N that we have to do, then. Well, let me see, what can you
want that begins with N? NaГўВҖВ”NeГўВҖВ”NiГўВҖВ”NoГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, yes,ГўВҖВқ said the old manГўВҖВҷs eye.

ГўВҖВңAh, it is No, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine fetched a dictionary, which she placed on a desk before
Noirtier; she opened it, and, seeing that the old manГўВҖВҷs eye was
thoroughly fixed on its pages, she ran her finger quickly up and down
the columns. During the six years which had passed since Noirtier first
fell into this sad state, ValentineГўВҖВҷs powers of invention had been too
often put to the test not to render her expert in devising expedients
for gaining a knowledge of his wishes, and the constant practice had so
perfected her in the art that she guessed the old manГўВҖВҷs meaning as
quickly as if he himself had been able to seek for what he wanted. At
the word _Notary_, Noirtier made a sign to her to stop.

30169m



ГўВҖВңNotary,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңdo you want a notary, dear grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ The old man
again signified that it was a notary he desired.

ГўВҖВңYou would wish a notary to be sent for then?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall my father be informed of your wish?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you wish the notary to be sent for immediately?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen they shall go for him directly, dear grandpapa. Is that all you
want?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ Valentine rang the bell, and ordered the servant to tell
Monsieur or Madame de Villefort that they were requested to come to M.
NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room.

ГўВҖВңAre you satisfied now?ГўВҖВқ inquired Valentine.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am sure you are; it is not very difficult to discover that.ГўВҖВқ And the
young girl smiled on her grandfather, as if he had been a child. M. de
Villefort entered, followed by Barrois.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you want me for, sir?ГўВҖВқ demanded he of the paralytic.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңmy grandfather wishes for a notary.ГўВҖВқ At this
strange and unexpected demand M. de Villefort and his father exchanged
looks.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ motioned the latter, with a firmness which seemed to declare
that with the help of Valentine and his old servant, who both knew what
his wishes were, he was quite prepared to maintain the contest.

ГўВҖВңDo you wish for a notary?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat to do?ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier made no answer.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you want with a notary?ГўВҖВқ again repeated Villefort. The
invalidГўВҖВҷs eye remained fixed, by which expression he intended to
intimate that his resolution was unalterable.

ГўВҖВңIs it to do us some ill turn? Do you think it is worth while?ГўВҖВқ said
Villefort.

ГўВҖВңStill,ГўВҖВқ said Barrois, with the freedom and fidelity of an old servant,
ГўВҖВңif M. Noirtier asks for a notary, I suppose he really wishes for a
notary; therefore I shall go at once and fetch one.ГўВҖВқ Barrois
acknowledged no master but Noirtier, and never allowed his desires in
any way to be contradicted.

30171m



ГўВҖВңYes, I do want a notary,ГўВҖВқ motioned the old man, shutting his eyes with
a look of defiance, which seemed to say, ГўВҖВңand I should like to see the
person who dares to refuse my request.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou shall have a notary, as you absolutely wish for one, sir,ГўВҖВқ said
Villefort; ГўВҖВңbut I shall explain to him your state of health, and make
excuses for you, for the scene cannot fail of being a most ridiculous
one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind that,ГўВҖВқ said Barrois; ГўВҖВңI shall go and fetch a notary,
nevertheless.ГўВҖВқ And the old servant departed triumphantly on his
mission.



 Chapter 59. The Will

As soon as Barrois had left the room, Noirtier looked at Valentine with
a malicious expression that said many things. The young girl perfectly
understood the look, and so did Villefort, for his countenance became
clouded, and he knitted his eyebrows angrily. He took a seat, and
quietly awaited the arrival of the notary. Noirtier saw him seat
himself with an appearance of perfect indifference, at the same time
giving a side look at Valentine, which made her understand that she
also was to remain in the room. Three-quarters of an hour after,
Barrois returned, bringing the notary with him.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, after the first salutations were over, ГўВҖВңyou were
sent for by M. Noirtier, whom you see here. All his limbs have become
completely paralysed, he has lost his voice also, and we ourselves find
much trouble in endeavoring to catch some fragments of his meaning.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier cast an appealing look on Valentine, which look was at once so
earnest and imperative, that she answered immediately.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңI perfectly understand my grandfatherГўВҖВҷs meaning at
all times.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is quite true,ГўВҖВқ said Barrois; ГўВҖВңand that is what I told the
gentleman as we walked along.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPermit me,ГўВҖВқ said the notary, turning first to Villefort and then to
ValentineГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңpermit me to state that the case in question is just one of
those in which a public officer like myself cannot proceed to act
without thereby incurring a dangerous responsibility. The first thing
necessary to render an act valid is, that the notary should be
thoroughly convinced that he has faithfully interpreted the will and
wishes of the person dictating the act. Now I cannot be sure of the
approbation or disapprobation of a client who cannot speak, and as the
object of his desire or his repugnance cannot be clearly proved to me,
on account of his want of speech, my services here would be quite
useless, and cannot be legally exercised.ГўВҖВқ

The notary then prepared to retire. An imperceptible smile of triumph
was expressed on the lips of the procureur. Noirtier looked at
Valentine with an expression so full of grief, that she arrested the
departure of the notary.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңthe language which I speak with my grandfather may be
easily learnt, and I can teach you in a few minutes, to understand it
almost as well as I can myself. Will you tell me what you require, in
order to set your conscience quite at ease on the subject?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn order to render an act valid, I must be certain of the approbation
or disapprobation of my client. Illness of body would not affect the
validity of the deed, but sanity of mind is absolutely requisite.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir, by the help of two signs, with which I will acquaint you
presently, you may ascertain with perfect certainty that my grandfather
is still in the full possession of all his mental faculties. M.
Noirtier, being deprived of voice and motion, is accustomed to convey
his meaning by closing his eyes when he wishes to signify ГўВҖВҳyes,ГўВҖВҷ and to
wink when he means ГўВҖВҳno.ГўВҖВҷ You now know quite enough to enable you to
converse with M. Noirtier;ГўВҖВ”try.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier gave Valentine such a look of tenderness and gratitude that it
was comprehended even by the notary himself.

ГўВҖВңYou have heard and understood what your granddaughter has been saying,
sir, have you?ГўВҖВқ asked the notary. Noirtier closed his eyes.

ГўВҖВңAnd you approve of what she saidГўВҖВ”that is to say, you declare that the
signs which she mentioned are really those by means of which you are
accustomed to convey your thoughts?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was you who sent for me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo make your will?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you do not wish me to go away without fulfilling your original
intentions?ГўВҖВқ The old man winked violently.

ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the young girl, ГўВҖВңdo you understand now, and is your
conscience perfectly at rest on the subject?ГўВҖВқ

But before the notary could answer, Villefort had drawn him aside.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdo you suppose for a moment that a man can sustain a
physical shock, such as M. Noirtier has received, without any detriment
to his mental faculties?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not exactly that, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the notary, ГўВҖВңwhich makes me uneasy,
but the difficulty will be in wording his thoughts and intentions, so
as to be able to get his answers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must see that to be an utter impossibility,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.
Valentine and the old man heard this conversation, and Noirtier fixed
his eye so earnestly on Valentine that she felt bound to answer to the
look.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңthat need not make you uneasy, however difficult it
may at first sight appear to be. I can discover and explain to you my
grandfatherГўВҖВҷs thoughts, so as to put an end to all your doubts and
fears on the subject. I have now been six years with M. Noirtier, and
let him tell you if ever once, during that time, he has entertained a
thought which he was unable to make me understand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ signed the old man.

ГўВҖВңLet us try what we can do, then,ГўВҖВқ said the notary. ГўВҖВңYou accept this
young lady as your interpreter, M. Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir, what do you require of me, and what document is it that you
wish to be drawn up?ГўВҖВқ

Valentine named all the letters of the alphabet until she came to W. At
this letter the eloquent eye of Noirtier gave her notice that she was
to stop.

ГўВҖВңIt is very evident that it is the letter W which M. Noirtier wants,ГўВҖВқ
said the notary.

ГўВҖВңWait,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; and, turning to her grandfather, she repeated,
ГўВҖВңWaГўВҖВ”WeГўВҖВ”WiГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ The old man stopped her at the last syllable. Valentine
then took the dictionary, and the notary watched her while she turned
over the pages.

She passed her finger slowly down the columns, and when she came to the
word ГўВҖВңWill,ГўВҖВқ M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye bade her stop.

ГўВҖВңWill,ГўВҖВқ said the notary; ГўВҖВңit is very evident that M. Noirtier is
desirous of making his will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, yes,ГўВҖВқ motioned the invalid.

ГўВҖВңReally, sir, you must allow that this is most extraordinary,ГўВҖВқ said the
astonished notary, turning to M. de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the procureur, ГўВҖВңand I think the will promises to be yet
more extraordinary, for I cannot see how it is to be drawn up without
the intervention of Valentine, and she may, perhaps, be considered as
too much interested in its contents to allow of her being a suitable
interpreter of the obscure and ill-defined wishes of her grandfather.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, no,ГўВҖВқ replied the eye of the paralytic.

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңdo you mean to say that Valentine is not
interested in your will?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said the notary, whose interest had been greatly excited, and
who had resolved on publishing far and wide the account of this
extraordinary and picturesque scene, ГўВҖВңwhat appeared so impossible to me
an hour ago, has now become quite easy and practicable, and this may be
a perfectly valid will, provided it be read in the presence of seven
witnesses, approved by the testator, and sealed by the notary in the
presence of the witnesses. As to the time, it will not require very
much more than the generality of wills. There are certain forms
necessary to be gone through, and which are always the same. As to the
details, the greater part will be furnished afterwards by the state in
which we find the affairs of the testator, and by yourself, who, having
had the management of them, can doubtless give full information on the
subject. But besides all this, in order that the instrument may not be
contested, I am anxious to give it the greatest possible authenticity,
therefore, one of my colleagues will help me, and, contrary to custom,
will assist in the dictation of the testament. Are you satisfied, sir?ГўВҖВқ
continued the notary, addressing the old man.

30175m



ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ looked the invalid, his eye beaming with delight at the ready
interpretation of his meaning.

ГўВҖВңWhat is he going to do?ГўВҖВқ thought Villefort, whose position demanded
much reserve, but who was longing to know what his fatherГўВҖВҷs intentions
were. He left the room to give orders for another notary to be sent,
but Barrois, who had heard all that passed, had guessed his masterГўВҖВҷs
wishes, and had already gone to fetch one. The procureur then told his
wife to come up. In the course of a quarter of an hour everyone had
assembled in the chamber of the paralytic; the second notary had also
arrived.

A few words sufficed for a mutual understanding between the two
officers of the law. They read to Noirtier the formal copy of a will,
in order to give him an idea of the terms in which such documents are
generally couched; then, in order to test the capacity of the testator,
the first notary said, turning towards him:

ГўВҖВңWhen an individual makes his will, it is generally in favor or in
prejudice of some person.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you an exact idea of the amount of your fortune?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will name to you several sums which will increase by gradation; you
will stop me when I reach the one representing the amount of your own
possessions?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

There was a kind of solemnity in this interrogation. Never had the
struggle between mind and matter been more apparent than now, and if it
was not a sublime, it was, at least, a curious spectacle. They had
formed a circle round the invalid; the second notary was sitting at a
table, prepared for writing, and his colleague was standing before the
testator in the act of interrogating him on the subject to which we
have alluded.

ГўВҖВңYour fortune exceeds 300,000 francs, does it not?ГўВҖВқ asked he. Noirtier
made a sign that it did.

ГўВҖВңDo you possess 400,000 francs?ГўВҖВқ inquired the notary. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye
remained immovable.

ГўВҖВң500,000?ГўВҖВқ The same expression continued.

ГўВҖВң600,000ГўВҖВ”700,000ГўВҖВ”800,000ГўВҖВ”900,000?ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier stopped him at the last-named sum.

ГўВҖВңYou are then in possession of 900,000 francs?ГўВҖВқ asked the notary.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn landed property?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn stock?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe stock is in your own hands?ГўВҖВқ

The look which M. Noirtier cast on Barrois showed that there was
something wanting which he knew where to find. The old servant left the
room, and presently returned, bringing with him a small casket.

ГўВҖВңDo you permit us to open this casket?ГўВҖВқ asked the notary. Noirtier gave
his assent.

They opened it, and found 900,000 francs in bank scrip. The first
notary handed over each note, as he examined it, to his colleague.

The total amount was found to be as M. Noirtier had stated.

ГўВҖВңIt is all as he has said; it is very evident that the mind still
retains its full force and vigor.ГўВҖВқ Then, turning towards the paralytic,
he said, ГўВҖВңYou possess, then, 900,000 francs of capital, which,
according to the manner in which you have invested it, ought to bring
in an income of about 40,000 livres?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo whom do you desire to leave this fortune?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңthere is not much doubt on that
subject. M. Noirtier tenderly loves his granddaughter, Mademoiselle de
Villefort; it is she who has nursed and tended him for six years, and
has, by her devoted attention, fully secured the affection, I had
almost said the gratitude, of her grandfather, and it is but just that
she should reap the fruit of her devotion.ГўВҖВқ

The eye of Noirtier clearly showed by its expression that he was not
deceived by the false assent given by Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs words and
manner to the motives which she supposed him to entertain.

ГўВҖВңIs it, then, to Mademoiselle Valentine de Villefort that you leave
these 900,000 francs?ГўВҖВқ demanded the notary, thinking he had only to
insert this clause, but waiting first for the assent of Noirtier, which
it was necessary should be given before all the witnesses of this
singular scene.

Valentine, when her name was made the subject of discussion, had
stepped back, to escape unpleasant observation; her eyes were cast
down, and she was crying. The old man looked at her for an instant with
an expression of the deepest tenderness, then, turning towards the
notary, he significantly winked his eye in token of dissent.

ГўВҖВңWhat,ГўВҖВқ said the notary, ГўВҖВңdo you not intend making Mademoiselle
Valentine de Villefort your residuary legatee?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are not making any mistake, are you?ГўВҖВқ said the notary; ГўВҖВңyou really
mean to declare that such is not your intention?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ repeated Noirtier; ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine raised her head, struck dumb with astonishment. It was not so
much the conviction that she was disinherited that caused her grief,
but her total inability to account for the feelings which had provoked
her grandfather to such an act. But Noirtier looked at her with so much
affectionate tenderness that she exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңOh, grandpapa, I see now that it is only your fortune of which you
deprive me; you still leave me the love which I have always enjoyed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes, most assuredly,ГўВҖВқ said the eyes of the paralytic, for he
closed them with an expression which Valentine could not mistake.

ГўВҖВңThank you, thank you,ГўВҖВқ murmured she. The old manГўВҖВҷs declaration that
Valentine was not the destined inheritor of his fortune had excited the
hopes of Madame de Villefort; she gradually approached the invalid, and
said:

ГўВҖВңThen, doubtless, dear M. Noirtier, you intend leaving your fortune to
your grandson, Edward de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

The winking of the eyes which answered this speech was most decided and
terrible, and expressed a feeling almost amounting to hatred.

ГўВҖВңNo?ГўВҖВқ said the notary; ГўВҖВңthen, perhaps, it is to your son, M. de
Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ The two notaries looked at each other in mute astonishment and
inquiry as to what were the real intentions of the testator. Villefort
and his wife both grew red, one from shame, the other from anger.

ГўВҖВңWhat have we all done, then, dear grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңyou no
longer seem to love any of us?ГўВҖВқ

The old manГўВҖВҷs eyes passed rapidly from Villefort and his wife, and
rested on Valentine with a look of unutterable fondness.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңif you love me, grandpapa, try and bring that love
to bear upon your actions at this present moment. You know me well
enough to be quite sure that I have never thought of your fortune;
besides, they say I am already rich in right of my motherГўВҖВ”too rich,
even. Explain yourself, then.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier fixed his intelligent eyes on ValentineГўВҖВҷs hand.

ГўВҖВңMy hand?ГўВҖВқ said she.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHer hand!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed everyone.

ГўВҖВңOh, gentlemen, you see it is all useless, and that my fatherГўВҖВҷs mind is
really impaired,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine suddenly, ГўВҖВңI understand. It is my marriage you
mean, is it not, dear grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, yes,ГўВҖВқ signed the paralytic, casting on Valentine a look of
joyful gratitude for having guessed his meaning.

30179m



ГўВҖВңYou are angry with us all on account of this marriage, are you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, this is too absurd,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the notary; ГўВҖВңon the contrary, the meaning of
M. Noirtier is quite evident to me, and I can quite easily connect the
train of ideas passing in his mind.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not wish me to marry M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ observed Valentine.

ГўВҖВңI do not wish it,ГўВҖВқ said the eye of her grandfather.

ГўВҖВңAnd you disinherit your granddaughter,ГўВҖВқ continued the notary, ГўВҖВңbecause
she has contracted an engagement contrary to your wishes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that, but for this marriage, she would have been your heir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

There was a profound silence. The two notaries were holding a
consultation as to the best means of proceeding with the affair.
Valentine was looking at her grandfather with a smile of intense
gratitude, and Villefort was biting his lips with vexation, while
Madame de Villefort could not succeed in repressing an inward feeling
of joy, which, in spite of herself, appeared in her whole countenance.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, who was the first to break the silence, ГўВҖВңI
consider that I am the best judge of the propriety of the marriage in
question. I am the only person possessing the right to dispose of my
daughterГўВҖВҷs hand. It is my wish that she should marry M. Franz
dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinayГўВҖВ”and she shall marry him.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine sank weeping into a chair.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said the notary, ГўВҖВңhow do you intend disposing of your fortune in
case Mademoiselle de Villefort still determines on marrying M. Franz?ГўВҖВқ
The old man gave no answer.

ГўВҖВңYou will, of course, dispose of it in some way or other?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn favor of some member of your family?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you intend devoting it to charitable purposes, then?ГўВҖВқ pursued the
notary.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said the notary, ГўВҖВңyou are aware that the law does not allow a
son to be entirely deprived of his patrimony?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou only intend, then, to dispose of that part of your fortune which
the law allows you to subtract from the inheritance of your son?ГўВҖВқ
Noirtier made no answer.

ГўВҖВңDo you still wish to dispose of all?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut they will contest the will after your death?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father knows me,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort; ГўВҖВңhe is quite sure that his
wishes will be held sacred by me; besides, he understands that in my
position I cannot plead against the poor.ГўВҖВқ The eye of Noirtier beamed
with triumph.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you decide on, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked the notary of Villefort.

ГўВҖВңNothing, sir; it is a resolution which my father has taken and I know
he never alters his mind. I am quite resigned. These 900,000 francs
will go out of the family in order to enrich some hospital; but it is
ridiculous thus to yield to the caprices of an old man, and I shall,
therefore, act according to my conscience.ГўВҖВқ

Having said this, Villefort quitted the room with his wife, leaving his
father at liberty to do as he pleased. The same day the will was made,
the witnesses were brought, it was approved by the old man, sealed in
the presence of all and given in charge to M. Deschamps, the family
notary.



 Chapter 60. The Telegraph

M. and Madame de Villefort found on their return that the Count of
Monte Cristo, who had come to visit them in their absence, had been
ushered into the drawing-room, and was still awaiting them there.
Madame de Villefort, who had not yet sufficiently recovered from her
late emotion to allow of her entertaining visitors so immediately,
retired to her bedroom, while the procureur, who could better depend
upon himself, proceeded at once to the salon.

Although M. de Villefort flattered himself that, to all outward view,
he had completely masked the feelings which were passing in his mind,
he did not know that the cloud was still lowering on his brow, so much
so that the count, whose smile was radiant, immediately noticed his
sombre and thoughtful air.

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, after the first compliments were over,
ГўВҖВңwhat is the matter with you, M. de Villefort? Have I arrived at the
moment when you were drawing up an indictment for a capital crime?ГўВҖВқ

Villefort tried to smile.

ГўВҖВңNo, count,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңI am the only victim in this case. It is I
who lose my cause, and it is ill-luck, obstinacy, and folly which have
caused it to be decided against me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo what do you refer?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with well-feigned interest.
ГўВҖВңHave you really met with some great misfortune?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort with a bitter smile; ГўВҖВңit is only a
loss of money which I have sustainedГўВҖВ”nothing worth mentioning, I assure
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthe loss of a sum of money becomes almost
immaterial with a fortune such as you possess, and to one of your
philosophic spirit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not so much the loss of the money that vexes me,ГўВҖВқ said
Villefort, ГўВҖВңthough, after all, 900,000 francs are worth regretting; but
I am the more annoyed with this fate, chance, or whatever you please to
call the power which has destroyed my hopes and my fortune, and may
blast the prospects of my child also, as it is all occasioned by an old
man relapsed into second childhood.ГўВҖВқ

30183m



ГўВҖВңWhat do you say?ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВң900,000 francs? It is indeed a sum
which might be regretted even by a philosopher. And who is the cause of
all this annoyance?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father, as I told you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Noirtier? But I thought you told me he had become entirely
paralyzed, and that all his faculties were completely destroyed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, his bodily faculties, for he can neither move nor speak,
nevertheless he thinks, acts, and wills in the manner I have described.
I left him about five minutes ago, and he is now occupied in dictating
his will to two notaries.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut to do this he must have spoken?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has done better than thatГўВҖВ”he has made himself understood.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow was such a thing possible?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the help of his eyes, which are still full of life, and, as you
perceive, possess the power of inflicting mortal injury.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, who had just entered the room,
ГўВҖВңperhaps you exaggerate the evil.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood-morning, madame,ГўВҖВқ said the count, bowing.



Madame de Villefort acknowledged the salutation with one of her most
gracious smiles.

ГўВҖВңWhat is this that M. de Villefort has been telling me?ГўВҖВқ demanded Monte
Cristo ГўВҖВңand what incomprehensible misfortuneГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIncomprehensible is the word!ГўВҖВқ interrupted the procureur, shrugging
his shoulders. ГўВҖВңIt is an old manГўВҖВҷs caprice!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd is there no means of making him revoke his decision?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңand it is still entirely in the power
of my husband to cause the will, which is now in prejudice of
Valentine, to be altered in her favor.ГўВҖВқ

The count, who perceived that M. and Madame de Villefort were beginning
to speak in parables, appeared to pay no attention to the conversation,
and feigned to be busily engaged in watching Edward, who was
mischievously pouring some ink into the birdГўВҖВҷs water-glass.

ГўВҖВңMy dear,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, in answer to his wife, ГўВҖВңyou know I have
never been accustomed to play the patriarch in my family, nor have I
ever considered that the fate of a universe was to be decided by my
nod. Nevertheless, it is necessary that my will should be respected in
my family, and that the folly of an old man and the caprice of a child
should not be allowed to overturn a project which I have entertained
for so many years. The Baron dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay was my friend, as you know, and
an alliance with his son is the most suitable thing that could possibly
be arranged.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңthat Valentine is in league
with him? She has always been opposed to this marriage, and I should
not be at all surprised if what we have just seen and heard is nothing
but the execution of a plan concerted between them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңbelieve me, a fortune of 900,000 francs is
not so easily renounced.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe could, nevertheless, make up her mind to renounce the world, sir,
since it is only about a year ago that she herself proposed entering a
convent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort; ГўВҖВңI say that this marriage _shall_ be
consummated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNotwithstanding your fatherГўВҖВҷs wishes to the contrary?ГўВҖВқ said Madame de
Villefort, selecting a new point of attack. ГўВҖВңThat is a serious thing.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo, who pretended not to be listening, heard however, every
word that was said.

30185m



ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort ГўВҖВңI can truly say that I have always
entertained a high respect for my father, because, to the natural
feeling of relationship was added the consciousness of his moral
superiority. The name of father is sacred in two senses; he should be
reverenced as the author of our being and as a master whom we ought to
obey. But, under the present circumstances, I am justified in doubting
the wisdom of an old man who, because he hated the father, vents his
anger on the son. It would be ridiculous in me to regulate my conduct
by such caprices. I shall still continue to preserve the same respect
toward M. Noirtier; I will suffer, without complaint, the pecuniary
deprivation to which he has subjected me; but I shall remain firm in my
determination, and the world shall see which party has reason on his
side. Consequently I shall marry my daughter to the Baron Franz
dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, because I consider it would be a proper and eligible match
for her to make, and, in short, because I choose to bestow my
daughterГўВҖВҷs hand on whomever I please.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ said the count, the approbation of whose eye Villefort had
frequently solicited during this speech. ГўВҖВңWhat? Do you say that M.
Noirtier disinherits Mademoiselle de Villefort because she is going to
marry M. le Baron Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir, that is the reason,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, shrugging his
shoulders.

ГўВҖВңThe apparent reason, at least,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңThe _real_ reason, madame, I can assure you; I know my father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I want to know in what way M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay can have displeased your
father more than any other person?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe I know M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңis he not the
son of General de Quesnel, who was created Baron dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay by Charles
X.?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe same,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңWell, but he is a charming young man, according to my ideas.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is, which makes me believe that it is only an excuse of M. Noirtier
to prevent his granddaughter marrying; old men are always so selfish in
their affection,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңdo you not know any cause for this hatred?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, _ma foi!_ who is to know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps it is some political difference?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father and the Baron dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay lived in the stormy times of which I
only saw the ending,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңWas not your father a Bonapartist?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI think I
remember that you told me something of that kind.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father has been a Jacobin more than anything else,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort,
carried by his emotion beyond the bounds of prudence; ГўВҖВңand the
senatorГўВҖВҷs robe, which Napoleon cast on his shoulders, only served to
disguise the old man without in any degree changing him. When my father
conspired, it was not for the emperor, it was against the Bourbons; for
M. Noirtier possessed this peculiarity, he never projected any Utopian
schemes which could never be realized, but strove for possibilities,
and he applied to the realization of these possibilities the terrible
theories of The Mountain,ГўВҖВ”theories that never shrank from any means
that were deemed necessary to bring about the desired result.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңit is just as I thought; it was politics
which brought Noirtier and M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay into personal contact. Although
General dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay served under Napoleon, did he not still retain
royalist sentiments? And was he not the person who was assassinated one
evening on leaving a Bonapartist meeting to which he had been invited
on the supposition that he favored the cause of the emperor?ГўВҖВқ

Villefort looked at the count almost with terror.

ГўВҖВңAm I mistaken, then?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңNo, sir, the facts were precisely what you have stated,ГўВҖВқ said Madame
de Villefort; ГўВҖВңand it was to prevent the renewal of old feuds that M.
de Villefort formed the idea of uniting in the bonds of affection the
two children of these inveterate enemies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was a sublime and charitable thought,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңand the
whole world should applaud it. It would be noble to see Mademoiselle
Noirtier de Villefort assuming the title of Madame Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort shuddered and looked at Monte Cristo as if he wished to read
in his countenance the real feelings which had dictated the words he
had just uttered. But the count completely baffled the procureur, and
prevented him from discovering anything beneath the never-varying smile
he was so constantly in the habit of assuming.

ГўВҖВңAlthough,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңit will be a serious thing for Valentine
to lose her grandfatherГўВҖВҷs fortune, I do not think that M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay will
be frightened at this pecuniary loss. He will, perhaps, hold me in
greater esteem than the money itself, seeing that I sacrifice
everything in order to keep my word with him. Besides, he knows that
Valentine is rich in right of her mother, and that she will, in all
probability, inherit the fortune of M. and Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, her
motherГўВҖВҷs parents, who both love her tenderly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who are fully as well worth loving and tending as M. Noirtier,ГўВҖВқ
said Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңbesides, they are to come to Paris in about
a month, and Valentine, after the affront she has received, need not
consider it necessary to continue to bury herself alive by being shut
up with M. Noirtier.ГўВҖВқ

The count listened with satisfaction to this tale of wounded self-love
and defeated ambition.

ГўВҖВңBut it seems to me,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңand I must begin by asking
your pardon for what I am about to say, that if M. Noirtier disinherits
Mademoiselle de Villefort because she is going to marry a man whose
father he detested, he cannot have the same cause of complaint against
this dear Edward.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, with an intonation of voice which it
is impossible to describe; ГўВҖВңis it not unjustГўВҖВ”shamefully unjust? Poor
Edward is as much M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs grandchild as Valentine, and yet, if
she had not been going to marry M. Franz, M. Noirtier would have left
her all his money; and supposing Valentine to be disinherited by her
grandfather, she will still be three times richer than he.ГўВҖВқ

The count listened and said no more.

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңwe will not entertain you any longer with our
family misfortunes. It is true that my patrimony will go to endow
charitable institutions, and my father will have deprived me of my
lawful inheritance without any reason for doing so, but I shall have
the satisfaction of knowing that I have acted like a man of sense and
feeling. M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, to whom I had promised the interest of this sum,
shall receive it, even if I endure the most cruel privations.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHowever,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, returning to the one idea which
incessantly occupied her mind, ГўВҖВңperhaps it would be better to explain
this unlucky affair to M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, in order to give him the
opportunity of himself renouncing his claim to the hand of Mademoiselle
de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that would be a great pity,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңA great pity,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңUndoubtedly,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, moderating the tones of his voice, ГўВҖВңa
marriage once concerted and then broken off, throws a sort of discredit
on a young lady; then again, the old reports, which I was so anxious to
put an end to, will instantly gain ground. No, it will all go well; M.
dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, if he is an honorable man, will consider himself more than
ever pledged to Mademoiselle de Villefort, unless he were actuated by a
decided feeling of avarice, but that is impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI agree with M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, fixing his eyes on
Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңand if I were sufficiently intimate with him to
allow of giving my advice, I would persuade him, since I have been told
M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay is coming back, to settle this affair at once beyond all
possibility of revocation. I will answer for the success of a project
which will reflect so much honor on M. de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

The procureur arose, delighted with the proposition, but his wife
slightly changed color.

ГўВҖВңWell, that is all that I wanted, and I will be guided by a counsellor
such as you are,ГўВҖВқ said he, extending his hand to Monte Cristo.
ГўВҖВңTherefore let everyone here look upon what has passed today as if it
had not happened, and as though we had never thought of such a thing as
a change in our original plans.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthe world, unjust as it is, will be pleased
with your resolution; your friends will be proud of you, and M.
dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, even if he took Mademoiselle de Villefort without any dowry,
which he will not do, would be delighted with the idea of entering a
family which could make such sacrifices in order to keep a promise and
fulfil a duty.ГўВҖВқ

At the conclusion of these words, the count rose to depart.

ГўВҖВңAre you going to leave us, count?ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңI am sorry to say I must do so, madame, I only came to remind you of
your promise for Saturday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you fear that we should forget it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are very good, madame, but M. de Villefort has so many important
and urgent occupations.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy husband has given me his word, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңyou
have just seen him resolve to keep it when he has everything to lose,
and surely there is more reason for his doing so where he has
everything to gain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңis it at your house in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es that
you receive your visitors?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңwhich is precisely the reason which renders
your kindness more meritorious,ГўВҖВ”it is in the country.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the country?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere is it, then? Near Paris, is it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery near, only half a league from the Barriers,ГўВҖВ”it is at Auteuil.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt Auteuil?ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңtrue, Madame de Villefort told me you
lived at Auteuil, since it was to your house that she was taken. And in
what part of Auteuil do you reside?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRue de la Fontaine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRue de la Fontaine!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Villefort in an agitated tone; ГўВҖВңat what
number?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo. 28.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, ГўВҖВңwas it you who bought M. de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs
house!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid it belong to M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran?ГўВҖВқ demanded Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңand, would you believe it,
countГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBelieve what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou think this house pretty, do you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think it charming.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, my husband would never live in it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ returned Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat is a prejudice on your part, M.
de Villefort, for which I am quite at a loss to account.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not like Auteuil, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the procureur, making an evident
effort to appear calm.

ГўВҖВңBut I hope you will not carry your antipathy so far as to deprive me
of the pleasure of your company, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңNo, count,ГўВҖВ”I hopeГўВҖВ”I assure you I shall do my best,ГўВҖВқ stammered
Villefort.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI allow of no excuse. On Saturday, at six
oГўВҖВҷclock. I shall be expecting you, and if you fail to come, I shall
thinkГўВҖВ”for how do I know to the contrary?ГўВҖВ”that this house, which has
remained uninhabited for twenty years, must have some gloomy tradition
or dreadful legend connected with it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will come, count,ГўВҖВ”I will be sure to come,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort eagerly.

ГўВҖВңThank you,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңnow you must permit me to take my
leave of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou said before that you were obliged to leave us, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said
Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңand you were about to tell us why when your
attention was called to some other subject.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed madame,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo: ГўВҖВңI scarcely know if I dare tell you
where I am going.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNonsense; say on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, it is to see a thing on which I have sometimes mused for
hours together.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA telegraph. So now I have told my secret.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA telegraph?ГўВҖВқ repeated Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYes, a telegraph. I had often seen one placed at the end of a road on
a hillock, and in the light of the sun its black arms, bending in every
direction, always reminded me of the claws of an immense beetle, and I
assure you it was never without emotion that I gazed on it, for I could
not help thinking how wonderful it was that these various signs should
be made to cleave the air with such precision as to convey to the
distance of three hundred leagues the ideas and wishes of a man sitting
at a table at one end of the line to another man similarly placed at
the opposite extremity, and all this effected by a simple act of
volition on the part of the sender of the message. I began to think of
genii, sylphs, gnomes, in short, of all the ministers of the occult
sciences, until I laughed aloud at the freaks of my own imagination.
Now, it never occurred to me to wish for a nearer inspection of these
large insects, with their long black claws, for I always feared to find
under their stone wings some little human genius fagged to death with
cabals, factions, and government intrigues. But one fine day I learned
that the mover of this telegraph was only a poor wretch, hired for
twelve hundred francs a year, and employed all day, not in studying the
heavens like an astronomer, or in gazing on the water like an angler,
or even in enjoying the privilege of observing the country around him,
but all his monotonous life was passed in watching his white-bellied,
black-clawed fellow insect, four or five leagues distant from him. At
length I felt a desire to study this living chrysalis more closely, and
to endeavor to understand the secret part played by these insect-actors
when they occupy themselves simply with pulling different pieces of
string.ГўВҖВқ

30191m



ГўВҖВңAnd are you going there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat telegraph do you intend visiting? that of the home department, or
of the observatory?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no; I should find there people who would force me to understand
things of which I would prefer to remain ignorant, and who would try to
explain to me, in spite of myself, a mystery which even they do not
understand. _Ma foi!_ I should wish to keep my illusions concerning
insects unimpaired; it is quite enough to have those dissipated which I
had formed of my fellow-creatures. I shall, therefore, not visit either
of these telegraphs, but one in the open country where I shall find a
good-natured simpleton, who knows no more than the machine he is
employed to work.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are a singular man,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңWhat line would you advise me to study?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe one that is most in use just at this time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Spanish one, you mean, I suppose?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; should you like a letter to the minister that they might explain
to youГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңsince, as I told you before, I do not wish to
comprehend it. The moment I understand it there will no longer exist a
telegraph for me; it will be nothing more than a sign from M. DuchГғВўtel,
or from M. Montalivet, transmitted to the prefect of Bayonne, mystified
by two Greek words, _tГғВӘle_, _graphein_. It is the insect with black
claws, and the awful word which I wish to retain in my imagination in
all its purity and all its importance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo then; for in the course of two hours it will be dark, and you will
not be able to see anything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ you frighten me. Which is the nearest way? Bayonne?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; the road to Bayonne.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd afterwards the road to ChГғВўtillon?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the tower of MontlhГғВ©ry, you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you. Good-bye. On Saturday I will tell you my impressions
concerning the telegraph.ГўВҖВқ

At the door the count was met by the two notaries, who had just
completed the act which was to disinherit Valentine, and who were
leaving under the conviction of having done a thing which could not
fail of redounding considerably to their credit.



 Chapter 61. How a Gardener May Get Rid of the Dormice that Eat His
 Peaches

Not on the same night as he had stated, but the next morning, the Count
of Monte Cristo went out by the BarriГғВЁre dГўВҖВҷEnfer, taking the road to
OrlГғВ©ans. Leaving the village of Linas, without stopping at the
telegraph, which flourished its great bony arms as he passed, the count
reached the tower of MontlhГғВ©ry, situated, as everyone knows, upon the
highest point of the plain of that name. At the foot of the hill the
count dismounted and began to ascend by a little winding path, about
eighteen inches wide; when he reached the summit he found himself
stopped by a hedge, upon which green fruit had succeeded to red and
white flowers.

Monte Cristo looked for the entrance to the enclosure, and was not long
in finding a little wooden gate, working on willow hinges, and fastened
with a nail and string. The count soon mastered the mechanism, the gate
opened, and he then found himself in a little garden, about twenty feet
long by twelve wide, bounded on one side by part of the hedge, which
contained the ingenious contrivance we have called a gate, and on the
other by the old tower, covered with ivy and studded with wall-flowers.

No one would have thought in looking at this old, weather-beaten,
floral-decked tower (which might be likened to an elderly dame dressed
up to receive her grandchildren at a birthday feast) that it would have
been capable of telling strange things, if,ГўВҖВ”in addition to the menacing
ears which the proverb says all walls are provided with,ГўВҖВ”it had also a
voice.

The garden was crossed by a path of red gravel, edged by a border of
thick box, of many yearsГўВҖВҷ growth, and of a tone and color that would
have delighted the heart of Delacroix, our modern Rubens. This path was
formed in the shape of the figure of 8, thus, in its windings, making a
walk of sixty feet in a garden of only twenty.

Never had Flora, the fresh and smiling goddess of gardeners, been
honored with a purer or more scrupulous worship than that which was
paid to her in this little enclosure. In fact, of the twenty rose-trees
which formed the _parterre_, not one bore the mark of the slug, nor
were there evidences anywhere of the clustering aphis which is so
destructive to plants growing in a damp soil. And yet it was not
because the damp had been excluded from the garden; the earth, black as
soot, the thick foliage of the trees betrayed its presence; besides,
had natural humidity been wanting, it could have been immediately
supplied by artificial means, thanks to a tank of water, sunk in one of
the corners of the garden, and upon which were stationed a frog and a
toad, who, from antipathy, no doubt, always remained on the two
opposite sides of the basin. There was not a blade of grass to be seen
in the paths, or a weed in the flower-beds; no fine lady ever trained
and watered her geraniums, her cacti, and her rhododendrons, in her
porcelain _jardiniГғВЁre_ with more pains than this hitherto unseen
gardener bestowed upon his little enclosure.

Monte Cristo stopped after having closed the gate and fastened the
string to the nail, and cast a look around.

ГўВҖВңThe man at the telegraph,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңmust either engage a gardener or
devote himself passionately to agriculture.ГўВҖВқ

Suddenly he struck against something crouching behind a wheelbarrow
filled with leaves; the something rose, uttering an exclamation of
astonishment, and Monte Cristo found himself facing a man about fifty
years old, who was plucking strawberries, which he was placing upon
grape leaves. He had twelve leaves and about as many strawberries,
which, on rising suddenly, he let fall from his hand.

ГўВҖВңYou are gathering your crop, sir?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, smiling.

30193m



ГўВҖВңExcuse me, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the man, raising his hand to his cap; ГўВҖВңI am
not up there, I know, but I have only just come down.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not let me interfere with you in anything, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said the
count; ГўВҖВңgather your strawberries, if, indeed, there are any left.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have ten left,ГўВҖВқ said the man, ГўВҖВңfor here are eleven, and I had
twenty-one, five more than last year. But I am not surprised; the
spring has been warm this year, and strawberries require heat, sir.
This is the reason that, instead of the sixteen I had last year, I have
this year, you see, eleven, already pluckedГўВҖВ”twelve, thirteen, fourteen,
fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen. Ah, I miss three, they were here
last night, sirГўВҖВ”I am sure they were hereГўВҖВ”I counted them. It must be the
son of MГғВЁre Simon who has stolen them; I saw him strolling about here
this morning. Ah, the young rascalГўВҖВ”stealing in a gardenГўВҖВ”he does not
know where that may lead him to.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, it is wrong,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңbut you should take into
consideration the youth and greediness of the delinquent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf course,ГўВҖВқ said the gardener, ГўВҖВңbut that does not make it the less
unpleasant. But, sir, once more I beg pardon; perhaps you are an
officer that I am detaining here.ГўВҖВқ And he glanced timidly at the
countГўВҖВҷs blue coat.

30197m



ГўВҖВңCalm yourself, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said the count, with the smile which he
made at will either terrible or benevolent, and which now expressed
only the kindliest feeling; ГўВҖВңI am not an inspector, but a traveller,
brought here by a curiosity he half repents of, since he causes you to
lose your time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, my time is not valuable,ГўВҖВқ replied the man with a melancholy smile.
ГўВҖВңStill it belongs to government, and I ought not to waste it; but,
having received the signal that I might rest for an hourГўВҖВқ (here he
glanced at the sun-dial, for there was everything in the enclosure of
MontlhГғВ©ry, even a sun-dial), ГўВҖВңand having ten minutes before me, and my
strawberries being ripe, when a day longerГўВҖВ”by-the-by, sir, do you think
dormice eat them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, I should think not,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңdormice are bad
neighbors for us who do not eat them preserved, as the Romans did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? Did the Romans eat them?ГўВҖВқ said the gardenerГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңate dormice?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have read so in Petronius,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңReally? They canГўВҖВҷt be nice, though they do say ГўВҖВҳas fat as a dormouse.ГўВҖВҷ
It is not a wonder they are fat, sleeping all day, and only waking to
eat all night. Listen. Last year I had four apricotsГўВҖВ”they stole one, I
had one nectarine, only oneГўВҖВ”well, sir, they ate half of it on the wall;
a splendid nectarineГўВҖВ”I never ate a better.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou ate it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is to say, the half that was leftГўВҖВ”you understand; it was
exquisite, sir. Ah, those gentlemen never choose the worst morsels;
like MГғВЁre SimonГўВҖВҷs son, who has not chosen the worst strawberries. But
this year,ГўВҖВқ continued the horticulturist, ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷll take care it shall not
happen, even if I should be forced to sit by the whole night to watch
when the strawberries are ripe.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo had seen enough. Every man has a devouring passion in his
heart, as every fruit has its worm; that of the telegraph man was
horticulture. He began gathering the grape-leaves which screened the
sun from the grapes, and won the heart of the gardener.

ГўВҖВңDid you come here, sir, to see the telegraph?ГўВҖВқ he said.

ГўВҖВңYes, if it isnГўВҖВҷt contrary to the rules.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ said the gardener; ГўВҖВңnot in the least, since there is no
danger that anyone can possibly understand what we are saying.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have been told,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthat you do not always yourselves
understand the signals you repeat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is true, sir, and that is what I like best,ГўВҖВқ said the man,
smiling.

ГўВҖВңWhy do you like that best?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause then I have no responsibility. I am a machine then, and
nothing else, and so long as I work, nothing more is required of me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo to himself, ГўВҖВңthat I can have met
with a man that has no ambition? That would spoil my plans.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said the gardener, glancing at the sun-dial, ГўВҖВңthe ten minutes
are almost up; I must return to my post. Will you go up with me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI follow you.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo entered the tower, which was divided into three stories.
The tower contained implements, such as spades, rakes, watering-pots,
hung against the wall; this was all the furniture. The second was the
manГўВҖВҷs conventional abode, or rather sleeping-place; it contained a few
poor articles of household furnitureГўВҖВ”a bed, a table, two chairs, a
stone pitcherГўВҖВ”and some dry herbs, hung up to the ceiling, which the
count recognized as sweet peas, and of which the good man was
preserving the seeds; he had labelled them with as much care as if he
had been master botanist in the Jardin des Plantes.

ГўВҖВңDoes it require much study to learn the art of telegraphing?ГўВҖВқ asked
Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңThe study does not take long; it was acting as a supernumerary that
was so tedious.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is the pay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA thousand francs, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is nothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; but then we are lodged, as you perceive.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo looked at the room. They passed to the third story; it was
the telegraph room. Monte Cristo looked in turn at the two iron handles
by which the machine was worked. ГўВҖВңIt is very interesting,ГўВҖВқ he said,
ГўВҖВңbut it must be very tedious for a lifetime.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. At first my neck was cramped with looking at it, but at the end
of a year I became used to it; and then we have our hours of
recreation, and our holidays.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHolidays?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen we have a fog.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, to be sure.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThose are indeed holidays to me; I go into the garden, I plant, I
prune, I trim, I kill the insects all day long.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow long have you been here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTen years, and five as a supernumerary make fifteen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou areГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFifty-five years old.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow long must you have served to claim the pension?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, sir, twenty-five years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how much is the pension?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA hundred crowns.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor humanity!ГўВҖВқ murmured Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWhat did you say, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked the man.

ГўВҖВңI was saying it was very interesting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll you were showing me. And you really understand none of these
signals?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNone at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd have you never tried to understand them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever. Why should I?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut still there are some signals only addressed to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you understand them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey are always the same.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd they meanГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳ_Nothing new; You have an hour;_ГўВҖВҷ or ГўВҖВҳ_Tomorrow_.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is simple enough,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңbut look, is not your
correspondent putting itself in motion?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes; thank you, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is it sayingГўВҖВ”anything you understand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; it asks if I am ready.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you reply?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the same sign, which, at the same time, tells my right-hand
correspondent that I am ready, while it gives notice to my left-hand
correspondent to prepare in his turn.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is very ingenious,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңYou will see,ГўВҖВқ said the man proudly; ГўВҖВңin five minutes he will speak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have, then, five minutes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo to himself; ГўВҖВңit is more
time than I require. My dear sir, will you allow me to ask you a
question?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are fond of gardening?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPassionately.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you would be pleased to have, instead of this terrace of twenty
feet, an enclosure of two acres?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, I should make a terrestrial paradise of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou live badly on your thousand francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBadly enough; but yet I do live.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but you have a wretchedly small garden.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, the garden is not large.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd, then, such as it is, it is filled with dormice, who eat
everything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, they are my scourges.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me, should you have the misfortune to turn your head while your
right-hand correspondent was telegraphingГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should not see him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen what would happen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI could not repeat the signals.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot having repeated them, through negligence, I should be fined.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow much?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA hundred francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe tenth of your incomeГўВҖВ”that would be fine work.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh!ГўВҖВқ said the man.

ГўВҖВңHas it ever happened to you?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңOnce, sir, when I was grafting a rose-tree.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, suppose you were to alter a signal, and substitute another?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is another case; I should be turned off, and lose my
pension.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThree hundred francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA hundred crowns, yes, sir; so you see that I am not likely to do any
of these things.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot even for fifteen yearsГўВҖВҷ wages? Come, it is worth thinking about?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor fifteen thousand francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, you alarm me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNonsense.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, you are tempting me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust so; fifteen thousand francs, do you understand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, let me see my right-hand correspondent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, do not look at him, but at this.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? Do you not know these bits of paper?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBank-notes!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly; there are fifteen of them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd whose are they?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYours, if you like.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMine?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the man, half-suffocated.

ГўВҖВңYes; yoursГўВҖВ”your own property.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, my right-hand correspondent is signalling.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet him signal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, you have distracted me; I shall be fined.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat will cost you a hundred francs; you see it is your interest to
take my bank-notes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, my right-hand correspondent redoubles his signals; he is
impatient.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mindГўВҖВ”take these;ГўВҖВқ and the count placed the packet in the manГўВҖВҷs
hands. ГўВҖВңNow this is not all,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңyou cannot live upon your
fifteen thousand francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall still have my place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, you will lose it, for you are going to alter your correspondentГўВҖВҷs
message.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, sir, what are you proposing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA jest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, unless you force meГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think I can effectually force you;ГўВҖВқ and Monte Cristo drew another
packet from his pocket. ГўВҖВңHere are ten thousand more francs,ГўВҖВқ he said,
ГўВҖВңwith the fifteen thousand already in your pocket, they will make
twenty-five thousand. With five thousand you can buy a pretty little
house with two acres of land; the remaining twenty thousand will bring
you in a thousand francs a year.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA garden with two acres of land!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd a thousand francs a year.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, heavens!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, take them,ГўВҖВқ and Monte Cristo forced the bank-notes into his
hand.

ГўВҖВңWhat am I to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing very difficult.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo repeat these signs.ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo took a paper from his pocket,
upon which were drawn three signs, with numbers to indicate the order
in which they were to be worked.

ГўВҖВңThere, you see it will not take long.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; butГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo this, and you will have nectarines and all the rest.ГўВҖВқ

The shot told; red with fever, while the large drops fell from his
brow, the man executed, one after the other, the three signs given by
the count, in spite of the frightful contortions of the right-hand
correspondent, who, not understanding the change, began to think the
gardener had gone mad. As to the left-hand one, he conscientiously
repeated the same signals, which were finally transmitted to the
Minister of the Interior.

ГўВҖВңNow you are rich,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the man, ГўВҖВңbut at what a price!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen, friend,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңI do not wish to cause you any
remorse; believe me, then, when I swear to you that you have wronged no
man, but on the contrary have benefited mankind.ГўВҖВқ

The man looked at the bank-notes, felt them, counted them, turned pale,
then red, then rushed into his room to drink a glass of water, but he
had no time to reach the water-jug, and fainted in the midst of his
dried herbs. Five minutes after the new telegram reached the minister,
Debray had the horses put to his carriage, and drove to DanglarsГўВҖВҷ
house.

ГўВҖВңHas your husband any Spanish bonds?ГўВҖВқ he asked of the baroness.

ГўВҖВңI think so, indeed! He has six millionsГўВҖВҷ worth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe must sell them at whatever price.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause Don Carlos has fled from Bourges, and has returned to Spain.ГўВҖВқ

30203m



ГўВҖВңHow do you know?ГўВҖВқ Debray shrugged his shoulders.

ГўВҖВңThe idea of asking how I hear the news,ГўВҖВқ he said.

The baroness did not wait for a repetition; she ran to her husband, who
immediately hastened to his agent, and ordered him to sell at any
price. When it was seen that Danglars sold, the Spanish funds fell
directly. Danglars lost five hundred thousand francs; but he rid
himself of all his Spanish shares. The same evening the following was
read in _Le Messager_:

ГўВҖВң[By telegraph.] The king, Don Carlos, has escaped the vigilance of his
guardians at Bourges, and has returned to Spain by the Catalonian
frontier. Barcelona has risen in his favor.ГўВҖВқ

All that evening nothing was spoken of but the foresight of Danglars,
who had sold his shares, and of the luck of the stock-jobber, who only
lost five hundred thousand francs by such a blow. Those who had kept
their shares, or bought those of Danglars, looked upon themselves as
ruined, and passed a very bad night. Next morning _Le Moniteur_
contained the following:

ГўВҖВңIt was without any foundation that _Le Messager_ yesterday announced
the flight of Don Carlos and the revolt of Barcelona. The king (Don
Carlos) has not left Bourges, and the peninsula is in the enjoyment of
profound peace. A telegraphic signal, improperly interpreted, owing to
the fog, was the cause of this error.ГўВҖВқ

The funds rose one per cent higher than before they had fallen. This,
reckoning his loss, and what he had missed gaining, made the difference
of a million to Danglars.

ГўВҖВңGood,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo to Morrel, who was at his house when the news
arrived of the strange reverse of fortune of which Danglars had been
the victim, ГўВҖВңI have just made a discovery for twenty-five thousand
francs, for which I would have paid a hundred thousand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat have you discovered?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңI have just discovered how a gardener may get rid of the dormice that
eat his peaches.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 62. Ghosts

At first sight, the exterior of the house at Auteuil gave no
indications of splendor, nothing one would expect from the destined
residence of the magnificent Count of Monte Cristo; but this simplicity
was according to the will of its master, who positively ordered nothing
to be altered outside. The splendor was within. Indeed, almost before
the door opened, the scene changed.

M. Bertuccio had outdone himself in the taste displayed in furnishing,
and in the rapidity with which it was executed. It is told that the Duc
dГўВҖВҷAntin removed in a single night a whole avenue of trees that annoyed
Louis XIV.; in three days M. Bertuccio planted an entirely bare court
with poplars, large spreading sycamores to shade the different parts of
the house, and in the foreground, instead of the usual paving-stones,
half hidden by the grass, there extended a lawn but that morning laid
down, and upon which the water was yet glistening. For the rest, the
orders had been issued by the count; he himself had given a plan to
Bertuccio, marking the spot where each tree was to be planted, and the
shape and extent of the lawn which was to take the place of the
paving-stones.

Thus the house had become unrecognizable, and Bertuccio himself
declared that he scarcely knew it, encircled as it was by a framework
of trees. The overseer would not have objected, while he was about it,
to have made some improvements in the garden, but the count had
positively forbidden it to be touched. Bertuccio made amends, however,
by loading the antechambers, staircases, and mantle-pieces with
flowers.

What, above all, manifested the shrewdness of the steward, and the
profound science of the master, the one in carrying out the ideas of
the other, was that this house which appeared only the night before so
sad and gloomy, impregnated with that sickly smell one can almost fancy
to be the smell of time, had in a single day acquired the aspect of
life, was scented with its masterГўВҖВҷs favorite perfumes, and had the very
light regulated according to his wish. When the count arrived, he had
under his touch his books and arms, his eyes rested upon his favorite
pictures; his dogs, whose caresses he loved, welcomed him in the
antechamber; the birds, whose songs delighted him, cheered him with
their music; and the house, awakened from its long sleep, like the
sleeping beauty in the wood, lived, sang, and bloomed like the houses
we have long cherished, and in which, when we are forced to leave them,
we leave a part of our souls.

The servants passed gayly along the fine courtyard; some, belonging to
the kitchens, gliding down the stairs, restored but the previous day,
as if they had always inhabited the house; others filling the
coach-houses, where the equipages, encased and numbered, appeared to
have been installed for the last fifty years; and in the stables the
horses replied with neighs to the grooms, who spoke to them with much
more respect than many servants pay their masters.

The library was divided into two parts on either side of the wall, and
contained upwards of two thousand volumes; one division was entirely
devoted to novels, and even the volume which had been published but the
day before was to be seen in its place in all the dignity of its red
and gold binding.

On the other side of the house, to match with the library, was the
conservatory, ornamented with rare flowers, that bloomed in china jars;
and in the midst of the greenhouse, marvellous alike to sight and
smell, was a billiard-table which looked as if it had been abandoned
during the past hour by players who had left the balls on the cloth.

One chamber alone had been respected by the magnificent Bertuccio.
Before this room, to which you could ascend by the grand, and go out by
the back staircase, the servants passed with curiosity, and Bertuccio
with terror.

At five oГўВҖВҷclock precisely, the count arrived before the house at
Auteuil, followed by Ali. Bertuccio was awaiting this arrival with
impatience, mingled with uneasiness; he hoped for some compliments,
while, at the same time, he feared to have frowns. Monte Cristo
descended into the courtyard, walked all over the house, without giving
any sign of approbation or pleasure, until he entered his bedroom,
situated on the opposite side to the closed room; then he approached a
little piece of furniture, made of rosewood, which he had noticed at a
previous visit.

ГўВҖВңThat can only be to hold gloves,ГўВҖВқ he said.

ГўВҖВңWill your excellency deign to open it?ГўВҖВқ said the delighted Bertuccio,
ГўВҖВңand you will find gloves in it.ГўВҖВқ

Elsewhere the count found everything he requiredГўВҖВ”smelling-bottles,
cigars, knick-knacks.

30207m



ГўВҖВңGood,ГўВҖВқ he said; and M. Bertuccio left enraptured, so great, so
powerful, and real was the influence exercised by this man over all who
surrounded him.

At precisely six oГўВҖВҷclock the clatter of horsesГўВҖВҷ hoofs was heard at the
entrance door; it was our captain of Spahis, who had arrived on MГғВ©dГғВ©ah.
ГўВҖВңI am sure I am the first,ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel; ГўВҖВңI did it on purpose to have
you a minute to myself, before everyone came. Julie and Emmanuel have a
thousand things to tell you. Ah, really this is magnificent! But tell
me, count, will your people take care of my horse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not alarm yourself, my dear MaximilianГўВҖВ”they understand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean, because he wants petting. If you had seen at what a pace he
cameГўВҖВ”like the wind!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should think so,ГўВҖВ”a horse that cost 5,000 francs!ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo,
in the tone which a father would use towards a son.

ГўВҖВңDo you regret them?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel, with his open laugh.

ГўВҖВңI? Certainly not,ГўВҖВқ replied the count. ГўВҖВңNo; I should only regret if the
horse had not proved good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is so good, that I have distanced M. de ChГғВўteau-Renaud, one of the
best riders in France, and M. Debray, who both mount the ministerГўВҖВҷs
Arabians; and close on their heels are the horses of Madame Danglars,
who always go at six leagues an hour.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen they follow you?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңSee, they are here.ГўВҖВқ And at the same minute a carriage with smoking
horses, accompanied by two mounted gentlemen, arrived at the gate,
which opened before them. The carriage drove round, and stopped at the
steps, followed by the horsemen.

The instant Debray had touched the ground, he was at the carriage-door.
He offered his hand to the baroness, who, descending, took it with a
peculiarity of manner imperceptible to everyone but Monte Cristo. But
nothing escaped the countГўВҖВҷs notice, and he observed a little note,
passed with the facility that indicates frequent practice, from the
hand of Madame Danglars to that of the ministerГўВҖВҷs secretary.

After his wife the banker descended, as pale as though he had issued
from his tomb instead of his carriage.

Madame Danglars threw a rapid and inquiring glance which could only be
interpreted by Monte Cristo, around the courtyard, over the peristyle,
and across the front of the house, then, repressing a slight emotion,
which must have been seen on her countenance if she had not kept her
color, she ascended the steps, saying to Morrel:

ГўВҖВңSir, if you were a friend of mine, I should ask you if you would sell
your horse.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel smiled with an expression very like a grimace, and then turned
round to Monte Cristo, as if to ask him to extricate him from his
embarrassment. The count understood him.

ГўВҖВңAh, madame,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңwhy did you not make that request of me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith you, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the baroness, ГўВҖВңone can wish for nothing, one
is so sure to obtain it. If it were so with M. MorrelГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnfortunately,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңI am witness that M. Morrel cannot
give up his horse, his honor being engaged in keeping it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe laid a wager he would tame MГғВ©dГғВ©ah in the space of six months. You
understand now that if he were to get rid of the animal before the time
named, he would not only lose his bet, but people would say he was
afraid; and a brave captain of Spahis cannot risk this, even to gratify
a pretty woman, which is, in my opinion, one of the most sacred
obligations in the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou see my position, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, bestowing a grateful smile
on Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңIt seems to me,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, in his coarse tone, ill-concealed by a
forced smile, ГўВҖВңthat you have already got horses enough.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars seldom allowed remarks of this kind to pass unnoticed,
but, to the surprise of the young people, she pretended not to hear it,
and said nothing. Monte Cristo smiled at her unusual humility, and
showed her two immense porcelain jars, over which wound marine plants,
of a size and delicacy that nature alone could produce. The baroness
was astonished.

ГўВҖВңWhy,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңyou could plant one of the chestnut-trees in the
Tuileries inside! How can such enormous jars have been manufactured?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou must not ask of us, the
manufacturers of fine porcelain, such a question. It is the work of
another age, constructed by the genii of earth and water.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВ”at what period can that have been?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know; I have only heard that an emperor of China had an oven
built expressly, and that in this oven twelve jars like this were
successively baked. Two broke, from the heat of the fire; the other ten
were sunk three hundred fathoms deep into the sea. The sea, knowing
what was required of her, threw over them her weeds, encircled them
with coral, and encrusted them with shells; the whole was cemented by
two hundred years beneath these almost impervious depths, for a
revolution carried away the emperor who wished to make the trial, and
only left the documents proving the manufacture of the jars and their
descent into the sea. At the end of two hundred years the documents
were found, and they thought of bringing up the jars. Divers descended
in machines, made expressly on the discovery, into the bay where they
were thrown; but of ten three only remained, the rest having been
broken by the waves. I am fond of these jars, upon which, perhaps,
misshapen, frightful monsters have fixed their cold, dull eyes, and in
which myriads of small fish have slept, seeking a refuge from the
pursuit of their enemies.ГўВҖВқ

Meanwhile, Danglars, who had cared little for curiosities, was
mechanically tearing off the blossoms of a splendid orange-tree, one
after another. When he had finished with the orange-tree, he began at
the cactus; but this, not being so easily plucked as the orange-tree,
pricked him dreadfully. He shuddered, and rubbed his eyes as though
awaking from a dream.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo to him, ГўВҖВңI do not recommend my pictures to
you, who possess such splendid paintings; but, nevertheless, here are
two by Hobbema, a Paul Potter, a Mieris, two by Gerard Douw, a Raphael,
a Van Dyck, a Zurbaran, and two or three by Murillo, worth looking at.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStay,ГўВҖВқ said Debray; ГўВҖВңI recognize this Hobbema.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; it was proposed for the Museum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich, I believe, does not contain one?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңNo; and yet they refused to buy it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңYou pretend not to know,ГўВҖВ”because government was not rich enough.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, pardon me,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңI have heard of these things
every day during the last eight years, and I cannot understand them
yet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will, by and by,ГўВҖВқ said Debray.

ГўВҖВңI think not,ГўВҖВқ replied ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңMajor Bartolomeo Cavalcanti and Count Andrea Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ announced
Baptistin.

A black satin stock, fresh from the makerГўВҖВҷs hands, gray moustaches, a
bold eye, a majorГўВҖВҷs uniform, ornamented with three medals and five
crossesГўВҖВ”in fact, the thorough bearing of an old soldierГўВҖВ”such was the
appearance of Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti, that tender father with whom
we are already acquainted. Close to him, dressed in entirely new
clothes, advanced smilingly Count Andrea Cavalcanti, the dutiful son,
whom we also know. The three young people were talking together. On the
entrance of the new-comers, their eyes glanced from father to son, and
then, naturally enough, rested on the latter, whom they began
criticising.

ГўВҖВңCavalcanti!ГўВҖВқ said Debray.

ГўВҖВңA fine name,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңthese Italians are well named and badly
dressed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are fastidious, ChГғВўteau-Renaud,ГўВҖВқ replied Debray; ГўВҖВңthose clothes
are well cut and quite new.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is just what I find fault with. That gentleman appears to be well
dressed for the first time in his life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho are those gentlemen?ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars of Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYou heardГўВҖВ”Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat tells me their name, and nothing else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! true. You do not know the Italian nobility; the Cavalcanti are all
descended from princes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave they any fortune?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn enormous one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do they do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTry to spend it all. They have some business with you, I think, from
what they told me the day before yesterday. I, indeed, invited them
here today on your account. I will introduce you to them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut they appear to speak French with a very pure accent,ГўВҖВқ said
Danglars.

ГўВҖВңThe son has been educated in a college in the south; I believe near
Marseilles. You will find him quite enthusiastic.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon what subject?ГўВҖВқ asked Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңThe French ladies, madame. He has made up his mind to take a wife from
Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA fine idea that of his,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, shrugging his shoulders.
Madame Danglars looked at her husband with an expression which, at any
other time, would have indicated a storm, but for the second time she
controlled herself.

ГўВҖВңThe baron appears thoughtful today,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo to her; ГўВҖВңare
they going to put him in the ministry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot yet, I think. More likely he has been speculating on the Bourse,
and has lost money.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. and Madame de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ cried Baptistin.

They entered. M. de Villefort, notwithstanding his self-control, was
visibly affected, and when Monte Cristo touched his hand, he felt it
tremble.

ГўВҖВңCertainly, women alone know how to dissimulate,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo to
himself, glancing at Madame Danglars, who was smiling on the procureur,
and embracing his wife.

After a short time, the count saw Bertuccio, who, until then, had been
occupied on the other side of the house, glide into an adjoining room.
He went to him.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you want, M. Bertuccio?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңYour excellency has not stated the number of guests.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow many covers?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount for yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs everyone here, your excellency?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio glanced through the door, which was ajar. The count watched
him. ГўВҖВңGood heavens!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed.

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңThat womanГўВҖВ”that woman!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe one with a white dress and so many diamondsГўВҖВ”the fair one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know her name; but it is she, sir, it is she!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhom do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe woman of the garden!ГўВҖВ”she that was _enceinte_ГўВҖВ”she who was walking
while she waited forГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio stood at the open door, with his eyes starting and his hair
on end.

ГўВҖВңWaiting for whom?ГўВҖВқ Bertuccio, without answering, pointed to Villefort
with something of the gesture Macbeth uses to point out Banquo.

ГўВҖВңOh, oh!ГўВҖВқ he at length muttered, ГўВҖВңdo you see?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? Who?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHim!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHim!ГўВҖВ”M. de Villefort, the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney? Certainly I see him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I did not kill him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, I think you are going mad, good Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңThen he is not dead?ГўВҖВқ

30213m



ГўВҖВңNo; you see plainly he is not dead. Instead of striking between the
sixth and seventh left ribs, as your countrymen do, you must have
struck higher or lower, and life is very tenacious in these lawyers, or
rather there is no truth in anything you have told meГўВҖВ”it was a fright
of the imagination, a dream of your fancy. You went to sleep full of
thoughts of vengeance; they weighed heavily upon your stomach; you had
the nightmareГўВҖВ”thatГўВҖВҷs all. Come, calm yourself, and reckon them upГўВҖВ”M.
and Madame de Villefort, two; M. and Madame Danglars, four; M. de
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, M. Debray, M. Morrel, seven; Major Bartolomeo
Cavalcanti, eight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEight!ГўВҖВқ repeated Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңStop! You are in a shocking hurry to be offГўВҖВ”you forget one of my
guests. Lean a little to the left. Stay! look at M. Andrea Cavalcanti,
the young man in a black coat, looking at MurilloГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВҳMadonnaГўВҖВҷ; now he
is turning.ГўВҖВқ

This time Bertuccio would have uttered an exclamation, had not a look
from Monte Cristo silenced him.

ГўВҖВңBenedetto?ГўВҖВқ he muttered; ГўВҖВңfatality!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHalf-past six oГўВҖВҷclock has just struck, M. Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count
severely; ГўВҖВңI ordered dinner at that hour, and I do not like to wait;ГўВҖВқ
and he returned to his guests, while Bertuccio, leaning against the
wall, succeeded in reaching the dining-room. Five minutes afterwards
the doors of the drawing-room were thrown open, and Bertuccio appearing
said, with a violent effort, ГўВҖВңThe dinner waits.ГўВҖВқ

The Count of Monte Cristo offered his arm to Madame de Villefort. ГўВҖВңM.
de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңwill you conduct the Baroness Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

Villefort complied, and they passed on to the dining-room.



 Chapter 63. The Dinner

It was evident that one sentiment affected all the guests on entering
the dining-room. Each one asked what strange influence had brought them
to this house, and yet astonished, even uneasy though they were, they
still felt that they would not like to be absent. The recent events,
the solitary and eccentric position of the count, his enormous, nay,
almost incredible fortune, should have made men cautious, and have
altogether prevented ladies visiting a house where there was no one of
their own sex to receive them; and yet curiosity had been enough to
lead them to overleap the bounds of prudence and decorum.

And all present, even including Cavalcanti and his son, notwithstanding
the stiffness of the one and the carelessness of the other, were
thoughtful, on finding themselves assembled at the house of this
incomprehensible man. Madame Danglars had started when Villefort, on
the countГўВҖВҷs invitation, offered his arm; and Villefort felt that his
glance was uneasy beneath his gold spectacles, when he felt the arm of
the baroness press upon his own. None of this had escaped the count,
and even by this mere contact of individuals the scene had already
acquired considerable interest for an observer.

M. de Villefort had on the right hand Madame Danglars, on his left
Morrel. The count was seated between Madame de Villefort and Danglars;
the other seats were filled by Debray, who was placed between the two
Cavalcanti, and by ChГғВўteau-Renaud, seated between Madame de Villefort
and Morrel.

The repast was magnificent; Monte Cristo had endeavored completely to
overturn the Parisian ideas, and to feed the curiosity as much as the
appetite of his guests. It was an Oriental feast that he offered to
them, but of such a kind as the Arabian fairies might be supposed to
prepare. Every delicious fruit that the four quarters of the globe
could provide was heaped in vases from China and jars from Japan. Rare
birds, retaining their most brilliant plumage, enormous fish, spread
upon massive silver dishes, together with every wine produced in the
Archipelago, Asia Minor, or the Cape, sparkling in bottles, whose
grotesque shape seemed to give an additional flavor to the draught,ГўВҖВ”all
these, like one of the displays with which Apicius of old gratified his
guests, passed in review before the eyes of the astonished Parisians,
who understood that it was possible to expend a thousand louis upon a
dinner for ten persons, but only on the condition of eating pearls,
like Cleopatra, or drinking refined gold, like Lorenzo deГўВҖВҷ Medici.

Monte Cristo noticed the general astonishment, and began laughing and
joking about it.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңyou will admit that, when arrived at a certain
degree of fortune, the superfluities of life are all that can be
desired; and the ladies will allow that, after having risen to a
certain eminence of position, the ideal alone can be more exalted. Now,
to follow out this reasoning, what is the marvellous?ГўВҖВ”that which we do
not understand. What is it that we really desire?ГўВҖВ”that which we cannot
obtain. Now, to see things which I cannot understand, to procure
impossibilities, these are the study of my life. I gratify my wishes by
two meansГўВҖВ”my will and my money. I take as much interest in the pursuit
of some whim as you do, M. Danglars, in promoting a new railway line;
you, M. de Villefort, in condemning a culprit to death; you, M. Debray,
in pacifying a kingdom; you, M. de ChГғВўteau-Renaud, in pleasing a woman;
and you, Morrel, in breaking a horse that no one can ride. For example,
you see these two fish; one brought from fifty leagues beyond St.
Petersburg, the other five leagues from Naples. Is it not amusing to
see them both on the same table?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat are the two fish?ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars.

ГўВҖВңM. ChГғВўteau-Renaud, who has lived in Russia, will tell you the name of
one, and Major Cavalcanti, who is an Italian, will tell you the name of
the other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis one is, I think, a sterlet,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңAnd that one, if I mistake not, a lamprey.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust so. Now, M. Danglars, ask these gentlemen where they are caught.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSterlets,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңare only found in the Volga.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd,ГўВҖВқ said Cavalcanti, ГўВҖВңI know that Lake Fusaro alone supplies
lampreys of that size.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly; one comes from the Volga, and the other from Lake Fusaro.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpossible!ГўВҖВқ cried all the guests simultaneously.

ГўВҖВңWell, this is just what amuses me,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңI am like
NeroГўВҖВ”_cupitor impossibilium_; and that is what is amusing you at this
moment. This fish, which seems so exquisite to you, is very likely no
better than perch or salmon; but it seemed impossible to procure it,
and here it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut how could you have these fish brought to France?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, nothing more easy. Each fish was brought over in a caskГўВҖВ”one filled
with river herbs and weeds, the other with rushes and lake plants; they
were placed in a wagon built on purpose, and thus the sterlet lived
twelve days, the lamprey eight, and both were alive when my cook seized
them, killing one with milk and the other with wine. You do not believe
me, M. Danglars!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI cannot help doubting,ГўВҖВқ answered Danglars with his stupid smile.

ГўВҖВңBaptistin,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңhave the other fish brought inГўВҖВ”the
sterlet and the lamprey which came in the other casks, and which are
yet alive.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars opened his bewildered eyes; the company clapped their hands.
Four servants carried in two casks covered with aquatic plants, and in
each of which was breathing a fish similar to those on the table.

ГўВҖВңBut why have two of each sort?ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars.

ГўВҖВңMerely because one might have died,ГўВҖВқ carelessly answered Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYou are certainly an extraordinary man,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңand
philosophers may well say it is a fine thing to be rich.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd to have ideas,ГўВҖВқ added Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңOh, do not give me credit for this, madame; it was done by the Romans,
who much esteemed them, and Pliny relates that they sent slaves from
Ostia to Rome, who carried on their heads fish which he calls the
_mulus_, and which, from the description, must probably be the
goldfish. It was also considered a luxury to have them alive, it being
an amusing sight to see them die, for, when dying, they change color
three or four times, and like the rainbow when it disappears, pass
through all the prismatic shades, after which they were sent to the
kitchen. Their agony formed part of their meritГўВҖВ”if they were not seen
alive, they were despised when dead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңbut then Ostia is only a few leagues from Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut what would be the use of living
eighteen hundred years after Lucullus, if we can do no better than he
could?ГўВҖВқ

The two Cavalcanti opened their enormous eyes, but had the good sense
not to say anything.

ГўВҖВңAll this is very extraordinary,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңstill, what I
admire the most, I confess, is the marvellous promptitude with which
your orders are executed. Is it not true that you only bought this
house five or six days ago?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly not longer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I am sure it is quite transformed since last week. If I remember
rightly, it had another entrance, and the courtyard was paved and
empty; while today we have a splendid lawn, bordered by trees which
appear to be a hundred years old.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy not? I am fond of grass and shade,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңthe door was towards the road before,
and on the day of my miraculous escape you brought me into the house
from the road, I remember.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut I preferred having an entrance
which would allow me to see the Bois de Boulogne over my gate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn four days,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңit is extraordinary!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңit seems quite miraculous to make a new
house out of an old one; for it was very old, and dull too. I recollect
coming for my mother to look at it when M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran advertised it
for sale two or three years ago.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Saint-MГғВ©ran?ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort; ГўВҖВңthen this house
belonged to M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran before you bought it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt appears so,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңIs it possible that you do not know of whom you purchased it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңQuite so; my steward transacts all this business for me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is certainly ten years since the house had been occupied,ГўВҖВқ said
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңand it was quite melancholy to look at it, with the
blinds closed, the doors locked, and the weeds in the court. Really, if
the house had not belonged to the father-in-law of the procureur, one
might have thought it some accursed place where a horrible crime had
been committed.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort, who had hitherto not tasted the three or four glasses of
rare wine which were placed before him, here took one, and drank it
off. Monte Cristo allowed a short time to elapse, and then said:

ГўВҖВңIt is singular, baron, but the same idea came across me the first time
I came here; it looked so gloomy I should never have bought it if my
steward had not taken the matter into his own hands. Perhaps the fellow
had been bribed by the notary.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is probable,ГўВҖВқ stammered out Villefort, trying to smile; ГўВҖВңbut I can
assure you that I had nothing to do with any such proceeding. This
house is part of ValentineГўВҖВҷs marriage-portion, and M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran
wished to sell it; for if it had remained another year or two
uninhabited it would have fallen to ruin.ГўВҖВқ

It was MorrelГўВҖВҷs turn to become pale.

ГўВҖВңThere was, above all, one room,ГўВҖВқ continued Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңvery plain
in appearance, hung with red damask, which, I know not why, appeared to
me quite dramatic.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңwhy dramatic?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan we account for instinct?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңAre there not some
places where we seem to breathe sadness?ГўВҖВ”why, we cannot tell. It is a
chain of recollectionsГўВҖВ”an idea which carries you back to other times,
to other placesГўВҖВ”which, very likely, have no connection with the present
time and place. And there is something in this room which reminds me
forcibly of the chamber of the Marquise de Ganges10 or Desdemona. Stay,
since we have finished dinner, I will show it to you, and then we will
take coffee in the garden. After dinner, the play.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo looked inquiringly at his guests. Madame de Villefort
rose, Monte Cristo did the same, and the rest followed their example.
Villefort and Madame Danglars remained for a moment, as if rooted to
their seats; they questioned each other with vague and stupid glances.

ГўВҖВңDid you hear?ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңWe must go,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, offering his arm.

The others, attracted by curiosity, were already scattered in different
parts of the house; for they thought the visit would not be limited to
the one room, and that, at the same time, they would obtain a view of
the rest of the building, of which Monte Cristo had created a palace.
Each one went out by the open doors. Monte Cristo waited for the two
who remained; then, when they had passed, he brought up the rear, and
on his face was a smile, which, if they could have understood it, would
have alarmed them much more than a visit to the room they were about to
enter. They began by walking through the apartments, many of which were
fitted up in the Eastern style, with cushions and divans instead of
beds, and pipes instead of furniture. The drawing-rooms were decorated
with the rarest pictures by the old masters, the boudoirs hung with
draperies from China, of fanciful colors, fantastic design, and
wonderful texture. At length they arrived at the famous room. There was
nothing particular about it, excepting that, although daylight had
disappeared, it was not lighted, and everything in it was
old-fashioned, while the rest of the rooms had been redecorated. These
two causes were enough to give it a gloomy aspect.

ГўВҖВңOh.ГўВҖВқ cried Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңit is really frightful.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars tried to utter a few words, but was not heard. Many
observations were made, the import of which was a unanimous opinion
that there was something sinister about the room.

30221m



ГўВҖВңIs it not so?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңLook at that large clumsy bed,
hung with such gloomy, blood-colored drapery! And those two crayon
portraits, that have faded from the dampness; do they not seem to say,
with their pale lips and staring eyes, ГўВҖВҳWe have seenГўВҖВҷ?ГўВҖВқ

Villefort became livid; Madame Danglars fell into a long seat placed
near the chimney.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, smiling, ГўВҖВңare you courageous enough to
sit down upon the very seat perhaps upon which the crime was
committed?ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars rose suddenly.

ГўВҖВңAnd then,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthis is not all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is there more?ГўВҖВқ said Debray, who had not failed to notice the
agitation of Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңAh, what else is there?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңfor, at present, I cannot say
that I have seen anything extraordinary. What do you say, M.
Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwe have at Pisa, UgolinoГўВҖВҷs tower; at Ferrara, TassoГўВҖВҷs
prison; at Rimini, the room of Francesca and Paolo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but you have not this little staircase,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo,
opening a door concealed by the drapery. ГўВҖВңLook at it, and tell me what
you think of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat a wicked-looking, crooked staircase,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud with a
smile.

ГўВҖВңI do not know whether the wine of Chios produces melancholy, but
certainly everything appears to me black in this house,ГўВҖВқ said Debray.

Ever since ValentineГўВҖВҷs dowry had been mentioned, Morrel had been silent
and sad.

ГўВҖВңCan you imagine,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңsome Othello or AbbГғВ© de Ganges,
one stormy, dark night, descending these stairs step by step, carrying
a load, which he wishes to hide from the sight of man, if not from
God?ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars half fainted on the arm of Villefort, who was obliged
to support himself against the wall.

ГўВҖВңAh, madame,ГўВҖВқ cried Debray, ГўВҖВңwhat is the matter with you? how pale you
look!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is very evident what is the matter with her,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de
Villefort; ГўВҖВңM. de Monte Cristo is relating horrible stories to us,
doubtless intending to frighten us to death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңreally, count, you frighten the ladies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray, in a whisper, of Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңNothing,ГўВҖВқ she replied with a violent effort. ГўВҖВңI want air, that is
all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you come into the garden?ГўВҖВқ said Debray, advancing towards the
back staircase.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ she answered, ГўВҖВңI would rather remain here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you really frightened, madame?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңOh, no, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars; ГўВҖВңbut you suppose scenes in a
manner which gives them the appearance of reality.ГўВҖВқ

30223m



ГўВҖВңAh, yes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo smiling; ГўВҖВңit is all a matter of
imagination. Why should we not imagine this the apartment of an honest
mother? And this bed with red hangings, a bed visited by the goddess
Lucina? And that mysterious staircase, the passage through which, not
to disturb their sleep, the doctor and nurse pass, or even the father
carrying the sleeping child?ГўВҖВқ

Here Madame Danglars, instead of being calmed by the soft picture,
uttered a groan and fainted.

ГўВҖВңMadame Danglars is ill,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңit would be better to take
her to her carriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, _mon Dieu!_ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңand I have forgotten my
smelling-bottle!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have mine,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort; and she passed over to Monte
Cristo a bottle full of the same kind of red liquid whose good
properties the count had tested on Edward.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, taking it from her hand.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ she said, ГўВҖВңat your advice I have made the trial.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd have you succeeded?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think so.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars was carried into the adjoining room; Monte Cristo
dropped a very small portion of the red liquid upon her lips; she
returned to consciousness.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ she cried, ГўВҖВңwhat a frightful dream!ГўВҖВқ

Villefort pressed her hand to let her know it was not a dream. They
looked for M. Danglars, but, as he was not especially interested in
poetical ideas, he had gone into the garden, and was talking with Major
Cavalcanti on the projected railway from Leghorn to Florence. Monte
Cristo seemed in despair. He took the arm of Madame Danglars, and
conducted her into the garden, where they found Danglars taking coffee
between the Cavalcanti.

ГўВҖВңReally, madame,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңdid I alarm you much?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, sir,ГўВҖВқ she answered; ГўВҖВңbut you know, things impress us
differently, according to the mood of our minds.ГўВҖВқ Villefort forced a
laugh.

ГўВҖВңAnd then, you know,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңan idea, a supposition, is sufficient.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou may believe me if you like, but it is
my opinion that a crime has been committed in this house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake care,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңthe kingГўВҖВҷs attorney is here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңsince that is the case, I will take
advantage of his presence to make my declaration.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour declaration?ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYes, before witnesses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, this is very interesting,ГўВҖВқ said Debray; ГўВҖВңif there really has been
a crime, we will investigate it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere has been a crime,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңCome this way, gentlemen;
come, M. Villefort, for a declaration to be available, should be made
before the competent authorities.ГўВҖВқ

He then took VillefortГўВҖВҷs arm, and, at the same time, holding that of
Madame Danglars under his own, he dragged the procureur to the
plantain-tree, where the shade was thickest. All the other guests
followed.

ГўВҖВңStay,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңhere, in this very spotГўВҖВқ (and he stamped
upon the ground), ГўВҖВңI had the earth dug up and fresh mould put in, to
refresh these old trees; well, my man, digging, found a box, or rather,
the iron-work of a box, in the midst of which was the skeleton of a
newly born infant.ГўВҖВқ

30225m



Monte Cristo felt the arm of Madame Danglars stiffen, while that of
Villefort trembled.

ГўВҖВңA newly born infant,ГўВҖВқ repeated Debray; ГўВҖВңthis affair becomes serious!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңI was not wrong just now then, when I
said that houses had souls and faces like men, and that their exteriors
carried the impress of their characters. This house was gloomy because
it was remorseful: it was remorseful because it concealed a crime.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho said it was a crime?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort, with a last effort.

ГўВҖВңHow? is it not a crime to bury a living child in a garden?ГўВҖВқ cried
Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңAnd pray what do you call such an action?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut who said it was buried alive?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy bury it there if it were dead? This garden has never been a
cemetery.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is done to infanticides in this country?ГўВҖВқ asked Major Cavalcanti
innocently.

ГўВҖВңOh, their heads are soon cut off,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВқ said Cavalcanti.

ГўВҖВңI think so; am I not right, M. de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYes, count,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, in a voice now scarcely human.

Monte Cristo, seeing that the two persons for whom he had prepared this
scene could scarcely endure it, and not wishing to carry it too far,
said:

ГўВҖВңCome, gentlemen,ГўВҖВ”some coffee, we seem to have forgotten it,ГўВҖВқ and he
conducted the guests back to the table on the lawn.

ГўВҖВңIndeed, count,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңI am ashamed to own it, but all
your frightful stories have so upset me, that I must beg you to let me
sit down;ГўВҖВқ and she fell into a chair.

Monte Cristo bowed, and went to Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңI think Madame Danglars again requires your bottle,ГўВҖВқ he said. But
before Madame de Villefort could reach her friend, the procureur had
found time to whisper to Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңI must speak to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTomorrow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn my office, or in the court, if you like,ГўВҖВ”that is the surest place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will be there.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment Madame de Villefort approached.

ГўВҖВңThanks, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, trying to smile; ГўВҖВңit is
over now, and I am much better.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 64. The Beggar

The evening passed on; Madame de Villefort expressed a desire to return
to Paris, which Madame Danglars had not dared to do, notwithstanding
the uneasiness she experienced. On his wifeГўВҖВҷs request, M. de Villefort
was the first to give the signal of departure. He offered a seat in his
landau to Madame Danglars, that she might be under the care of his
wife. As for M. Danglars, absorbed in an interesting conversation with
M. Cavalcanti, he paid no attention to anything that was passing. While
Monte Cristo had begged the smelling-bottle of Madame de Villefort, he
had noticed the approach of Villefort to Madame Danglars, and he soon
guessed all that had passed between them, though the words had been
uttered in so low a voice as hardly to be heard by Madame Danglars.
Without opposing their arrangements, he allowed Morrel, ChГғВўteau-Renaud,
and Debray to leave on horseback, and the ladies in M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs
carriage. Danglars, more and more delighted with Major Cavalcanti, had
offered him a seat in his carriage. Andrea Cavalcanti found his tilbury
waiting at the door; the groom, in every respect a caricature of the
English fashion, was standing on tiptoe to hold a large iron-gray
horse.

Andrea had spoken very little during dinner; he was an intelligent lad,
and he feared to utter some absurdity before so many grand people,
amongst whom, with dilating eyes, he saw the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney. Then he
had been seized upon by Danglars, who, with a rapid glance at the
stiff-necked old major and his modest son, and taking into
consideration the hospitality of the count, made up his mind that he
was in the society of some nabob come to Paris to finish the worldly
education of his heir. He contemplated with unspeakable delight the
large diamond which shone on the majorГўВҖВҷs little finger; for the major,
like a prudent man, in case of any accident happening to his
bank-notes, had immediately converted them into an available asset.
Then, after dinner, on the pretext of business, he questioned the
father and son upon their mode of living; and the father and son,
previously informed that it was through Danglars the one was to receive
his 48,000 francs and the other 50,000 livres annually, were so full of
affability that they would have shaken hands even with the bankerГўВҖВҷs
servants, so much did their gratitude need an object to expend itself
upon.

One thing above all the rest heightened the respect, nay almost the
veneration, of Danglars for Cavalcanti. The latter, faithful to the
principle of Horace, _nil admirari_, had contented himself with showing
his knowledge by declaring in what lake the best lampreys were caught.
Then he had eaten some without saying a word more; Danglars, therefore,
concluded that such luxuries were common at the table of the
illustrious descendant of the Cavalcanti, who most likely in Lucca fed
upon trout brought from Switzerland, and lobsters sent from England, by
the same means used by the count to bring the lampreys from Lake
Fusaro, and the sterlet from the Volga. Thus it was with much
politeness of manner that he heard Cavalcanti pronounce these words:

ГўВҖВңTomorrow, sir, I shall have the honor of waiting upon you on
business.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңshall be most happy to receive you.ГўВҖВқ

Upon which he offered to take Cavalcanti in his carriage to the HГғВҙtel
des Princes, if it would not be depriving him of the company of his
son. To this Cavalcanti replied by saying that for some time past his
son had lived independently of him, that he had his own horses and
carriages, and that not having come together, it would not be difficult
for them to leave separately. The major seated himself, therefore, by
the side of Danglars, who was more and more charmed with the ideas of
order and economy which ruled this man, and yet who, being able to
allow his son 60,000 francs a year, might be supposed to possess a
fortune of 500,000 or 600,000 livres.

As for Andrea, he began, by way of showing off, to scold his groom,
who, instead of bringing the tilbury to the steps of the house, had
taken it to the outer door, thus giving him the trouble of walking
thirty steps to reach it. The groom heard him with humility, took the
bit of the impatient animal with his left hand, and with the right held
out the reins to Andrea, who, taking them from him, rested his polished
boot lightly on the step.

At that moment a hand touched his shoulder. The young man turned round,
thinking that Danglars or Monte Cristo had forgotten something they
wished to tell him, and had returned just as they were starting. But
instead of either of these, he saw nothing but a strange face,
sunburnt, and encircled by a beard, with eyes brilliant as carbuncles,
and a smile upon the mouth which displayed a perfect set of white
teeth, pointed and sharp as the wolfГўВҖВҷs or jackalГўВҖВҷs. A red handkerchief
encircled his gray head; torn and filthy garments covered his large
bony limbs, which seemed as though, like those of a skeleton, they
would rattle as he walked; and the hand with which he leaned upon the
young manГўВҖВҷs shoulder, and which was the first thing Andrea saw, seemed
of gigantic size.

30229m



Did the young man recognize that face by the light of the lantern in
his tilbury, or was he merely struck with the horrible appearance of
his interrogator? We cannot say; but only relate the fact that he
shuddered and stepped back suddenly.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you want of me?ГўВҖВқ he asked.

ГўВҖВңPardon me, my friend, if I disturb you,ГўВҖВқ said the man with the red
handkerchief, ГўВҖВңbut I want to speak to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have no right to beg at night,ГўВҖВқ said the groom, endeavoring to rid
his master of the troublesome intruder.

ГўВҖВңI am not begging, my fine fellow,ГўВҖВқ said the unknown to the servant,
with so ironical an expression of the eye, and so frightful a smile,
that he withdrew; ГўВҖВңI only wish to say two or three words to your
master, who gave me a commission to execute about a fortnight ago.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, with sufficient nerve for his servant not to
perceive his agitation, ГўВҖВңwhat do you want? Speak quickly, friend.ГўВҖВқ

The man said, in a low voice: ГўВҖВңI wishГўВҖВ”I wish you to spare me the walk
back to Paris. I am very tired, and as I have not eaten so good a
dinner as you, I can scarcely stand.ГўВҖВқ

The young man shuddered at this strange familiarity.

ГўВҖВңTell me,ГўВҖВқ he saidГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңtell me what you want?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, I want you to take me up in your fine carriage, and carry
me back.ГўВҖВқ Andrea turned pale, but said nothing.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the man, thrusting his hands into his pockets, and looking
impudently at the youth; ГўВҖВңI have taken the whim into my head; do you
understand, Master Benedetto?ГўВҖВқ

At this name, no doubt, the young man reflected a little, for he went
towards his groom, saying:

ГўВҖВңThis man is right; I did indeed charge him with a commission, the
result of which he must tell me; walk to the barrier, there take a cab,
that you may not be too late.ГўВҖВқ

The surprised groom retired.

ГўВҖВңLet me at least reach a shady spot,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңOh, as for that, IГўВҖВҷll take you to a splendid place,ГўВҖВқ said the man with
the handkerchief; and taking the horseГўВҖВҷs bit he led the tilbury where
it was certainly impossible for anyone to witness the honor that Andrea
conferred upon him.

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt think I want the glory of riding in your fine carriage,ГўВҖВқ said
he; ГўВҖВңoh, no, itГўВҖВҷs only because I am tired, and also because I have a
little business to talk over with you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, step in,ГўВҖВқ said the young man. It was a pity this scene had not
occurred in daylight, for it was curious to see this rascal throwing
himself heavily down on the cushion beside the young and elegant driver
of the tilbury. Andrea drove past the last house in the village without
saying a word to his companion, who smiled complacently, as though
well-pleased to find himself travelling in so comfortable a vehicle.
Once out of Auteuil, Andrea looked around, in order to assure himself
that he could neither be seen nor heard, and then, stopping the horse
and crossing his arms before the man, he asked:

ГўВҖВңNow, tell me why you come to disturb my tranquillity?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet me ask you why you deceived me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow have I deceived you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHow,ГўВҖВҷ do you ask? When we parted at the Pont du Var, you told me you
were going to travel through Piedmont and Tuscany; but instead of that,
you come to Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow does that annoy you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt does not; on the contrary, I think it will answer my purpose.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңyou are speculating upon me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat fine words he uses!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI warn you, Master Caderousse, that you are mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, well, donГўВҖВҷt be angry, my boy; you know well enough what it is to
be unfortunate; and misfortunes make us jealous. I thought you were
earning a living in Tuscany or Piedmont by acting as _facchino_ or
_cicerone_, and I pitied you sincerely, as I would a child of my own.
You know I always did call you my child.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come, what then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPatienceГўВҖВ”patience!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am patient, but go on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll at once I see you pass through the barrier with a groom, a
tilbury, and fine new clothes. You must have discovered a mine, or else
become a stockbroker.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that, as you confess, you are jealous?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I am pleasedГўВҖВ”so pleased that I wished to congratulate you; but as
I am not quite properly dressed, I chose my opportunity, that I might
not compromise you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and a fine opportunity you have chosen!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Andrea; ГўВҖВңyou
speak to me before my servant.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow can I help that, my boy? I speak to you when I can catch you. You
have a quick horse, a light tilbury, you are naturally as slippery as
an eel; if I had missed you tonight, I might not have had another
chance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou see, I do not conceal myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are lucky; I wish I could say as much, for I do conceal myself;
and then I was afraid you would not recognize me, but you did,ГўВҖВқ added
Caderousse with his unpleasant smile. ГўВҖВңIt was very polite of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңwhat do you want?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not speak affectionately to me, Benedetto, my old friend, that
is not rightГўВҖВ”take care, or I may become troublesome.ГўВҖВқ

This menace smothered the young manГўВҖВҷs passion. He urged the horse again
into a trot.

ГўВҖВңYou should not speak so to an old friend like me, Caderousse, as you
said just now; you are a native of Marseilles, I amГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know then now what you are?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, but I was brought up in Corsica; you are old and obstinate, I am
young and wilful. Between people like us threats are out of place,
everything should be amicably arranged. Is it my fault if fortune,
which has frowned on you, has been kind to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFortune has been kind to you, then? Your tilbury, your groom, your
clothes, are not then hired? Good, so much the better,ГўВҖВқ said
Caderousse, his eyes sparkling with avarice.

ГўВҖВңOh, you knew that well enough before speaking to me,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea,
becoming more and more excited. ГўВҖВңIf I had been wearing a handkerchief
like yours on my head, rags on my back, and worn-out shoes on my feet,
you would not have known me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou wrong me, my boy; now I have found you, nothing prevents my being
as well-dressed as anyone, knowing, as I do, the goodness of your
heart. If you have two coats you will give me one of them. I used to
divide my soup and beans with you when you were hungry.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңWhat an appetite you used to have! Is it as good now?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea, laughing.

ГўВҖВңHow did you come to be dining with that prince whose house you have
just left?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is not a prince; simply a count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA count, and a rich one too, eh?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but you had better not have anything to say to him, for he is not
a very good-tempered gentleman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, be easy! I have no design upon your count, and you shall have him
all to yourself. But,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, again smiling with the
disagreeable expression he had before assumed, ГўВҖВңyou must pay for itГўВҖВ”you
understand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what do you want?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think that with a hundred francs a monthГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI could liveГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUpon a hundred francs!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңComeГўВҖВ”you understand me; but that withГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith a hundred and fifty francs I should be quite happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere are two hundred,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea; and he placed ten gold louis in
the hand of Caderousse.

30233m



ГўВҖВңGood!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңApply to the steward on the first day of every month, and you will
receive the same sum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere now, again you degrade me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy making me apply to the servants, when I want to transact business
with you alone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, be it so, then. Take it from me then, and so long at least as I
receive my income, you shall be paid yours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come; I always said you were a fine fellow, and it is a blessing
when good fortune happens to such as you. But tell me all about it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy do you wish to know?ГўВҖВқ asked Cavalcanti.

ГўВҖВңWhat? do you again defy me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; the fact is, I have found my father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? a real father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, so long as he pays meГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYouГўВҖВҷll honor and believe himГўВҖВ”thatГўВҖВҷs right. What is his name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMajor Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs he pleased with you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo far I have appeared to answer his purpose.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who found this father for you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe man whose house you have just left?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI wish you would try and find me a situation with him as grandfather,
since he holds the money-chest!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I will mention you to him. Meanwhile, what are you going to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is very kind of you to trouble yourself about me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSince you interest yourself in my affairs, I think it is now my turn
to ask you some questions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true. Well; I shall rent a room in some respectable house, wear a
decent coat, shave every day, and go and read the papers in a cafГғВ©.
Then, in the evening, I shall go to the theatre; I shall look like some
retired baker. That is what I want.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, if you will only put this scheme into execution, and be steady,
nothing could be better.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think so, M. Bossuet? And youГўВҖВ”what will you become? A peer of
France?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңwho knows?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMajor Cavalcanti is already one, perhaps; but then, hereditary rank is
abolished.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo politics, Caderousse. And now that you have all you want, and that
we understand each other, jump down from the tilbury and disappear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all, my good friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow? Not at all?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, just think for a moment; with this red handkerchief on my head,
with scarcely any shoes, no papers, and ten gold napoleons in my
pocket, without reckoning what was there beforeГўВҖВ”making in all about two
hundred francs,ГўВҖВ”why, I should certainly be arrested at the barriers.
Then, to justify myself, I should say that you gave me the money; this
would cause inquiries, it would be found that I left Toulon without
giving due notice, and I should then be escorted back to the shores of
the Mediterranean. Then I should become simply No. 106, and good-bye to
my dream of resembling the retired baker! No, no, my boy; I prefer
remaining honorably in the capital.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea scowled. Certainly, as he had himself owned, the reputed son of
Major Cavalcanti was a wilful fellow. He drew up for a minute, threw a
rapid glance around him, and then his hand fell instantly into his
pocket, where it began playing with a pistol. But, meanwhile,
Caderousse, who had never taken his eyes off his companion, passed his
hand behind his back, and opened a long Spanish knife, which he always
carried with him, to be ready in case of need. The two friends, as we
see, were worthy of and understood one another. AndreaГўВҖВҷs hand left his
pocket inoffensively, and was carried up to the red moustache, which it
played with for some time.

ГўВҖВңGood Caderousse,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңhow happy you will be.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will do my best,ГўВҖВқ said the innkeeper of the Pont du Gard, shutting
up his knife.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, we will go into Paris. But how will you pass through the
barrier without exciting suspicion? It seems to me that you are in more
danger riding than on foot.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңwe shall see.ГўВҖВқ He then took the greatcoat
with the large collar, which the groom had left behind in the tilbury,
and put it on his back; then he took off CavalcantiГўВҖВҷs hat, which he
placed upon his own head, and finally he assumed the careless attitude
of a servant whose master drives himself.

ГўВҖВңBut, tell me,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңam I to remain bareheaded?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPooh,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңit is so windy that your hat can easily
appear to have blown off.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come; enough of this,ГўВҖВқ said Cavalcanti.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you waiting for?ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңI hope I am not the
cause.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea. They passed the barrier without accident. At the
first cross street Andrea stopped his horse, and Caderousse leaped out.

ГўВҖВңWell!ГўВҖВқ said Andrea,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңmy servantГўВҖВҷs coat and my hat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңyou would not like me to risk taking cold?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what am I to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou? Oh, you are young while I am beginning to get old. _Au revoir_,
Benedetto;ГўВҖВқ and running into a court, he disappeared.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, sighing, ГўВҖВңone cannot be completely happy in this
world!ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 65. A Conjugal Scene

At the Place Louis XV. the three young people separatedГўВҖВ”that is to say,
Morrel went to the Boulevards, ChГғВўteau-Renaud to the Pont de la
RГғВ©volution, and Debray to the Quai. Most probably Morrel and
ChГғВўteau-Renaud returned to their ГўВҖВңdomestic hearths,ГўВҖВқ as they say in the
gallery of the Chamber in well-turned speeches, and in the theatre of
the Rue Richelieu in well-written pieces; but it was not the case with
Debray. When he reached the wicket of the Louvre, he turned to the
left, galloped across the Carrousel, passed through the Rue Saint-Roch,
and, issuing from the Rue de la MichodiГғВЁre, he arrived at M. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ
door just at the same time that VillefortГўВҖВҷs landau, after having
deposited him and his wife at the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©, stopped to
leave the baroness at her own house.

Debray, with the air of a man familiar with the house, entered first
into the court, threw his bridle into the hands of a footman, and
returned to the door to receive Madame Danglars, to whom he offered his
arm, to conduct her to her apartments. The gate once closed, and Debray
and the baroness alone in the court, he asked:

ГўВҖВңWhat was the matter with you, Hermine? and why were you so affected at
that story, or rather fable, which the count related?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I have been in such shocking spirits all the evening, my
friend,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness.

ГўВҖВңNo, Hermine,ГўВҖВқ replied Debray; ГўВҖВңyou cannot make me believe that; on the
contrary, you were in excellent spirits when you arrived at the
countГўВҖВҷs. M. Danglars was disagreeable, certainly, but I know how much
you care for his ill-humor. Someone has vexed you; I will allow no one
to annoy you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are deceived, Lucien, I assure you,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame Danglars; ГўВҖВңand
what I have told you is really the case, added to the ill-humor you
remarked, but which I did not think it worth while to allude to.ГўВҖВқ

It was evident that Madame Danglars was suffering from that nervous
irritability which women frequently cannot account for even to
themselves; or that, as Debray had guessed, she had experienced some
secret agitation that she would not acknowledge to anyone. Being a man
who knew that the former of these symptoms was one of the inherent
penalties of womanhood, he did not then press his inquiries, but waited
for a more appropriate opportunity when he should again interrogate
her, or receive an avowal _proprio motu_.

At the door of her apartment the baroness met Mademoiselle CornГғВ©lie,
her confidential maid.

ГўВҖВңWhat is my daughter doing?ГўВҖВқ asked Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңShe practiced all the evening, and then went to bed,ГўВҖВқ replied
Mademoiselle CornГғВ©lie.

ГўВҖВңYet I think I hear her piano.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is Mademoiselle Louise dГўВҖВҷArmilly, who is playing while Mademoiselle
Danglars is in bed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңcome and undress me.ГўВҖВқ

They entered the bedroom. Debray stretched himself upon a large couch,
and Madame Danglars passed into her dressing-room with Mademoiselle
CornГғВ©lie.

ГўВҖВңMy dear M. Lucien,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars through the door, ГўВҖВңyou are
always complaining that EugГғВ©nie will not address a word to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said Lucien, playing with a little dog, who, recognizing him
as a friend of the house, expected to be caressed, ГўВҖВңI am not the only
one who makes similar complaints, I think I heard Morcerf say that he
could not extract a word from his betrothed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars; ГўВҖВңyet I think this will all pass off, and
that you will one day see her enter your study.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy study?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt least that of the minister.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo ask for an engagement at the Opera. Really, I never saw such an
infatuation for music; it is quite ridiculous for a young lady of
fashion.ГўВҖВқ

Debray smiled. ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңlet her come, with your consent and
that of the baron, and we will try and give her an engagement, though
we are very poor to pay such talent as hers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo, CornГғВ©lie,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңI do not require you any
longer.ГўВҖВқ

CornГғВ©lie obeyed, and the next minute Madame Danglars left her room in a
charming loose dress, and came and sat down close to Debray. Then she
began thoughtfully to caress the little spaniel. Lucien looked at her
for a moment in silence.

ГўВҖВңCome, Hermine,ГўВҖВқ he said, after a short time, ГўВҖВңanswer
candidly,ГўВҖВ”something vexes youГўВҖВ”is it not so?ГўВҖВқ

30239m



ГўВҖВңNothing,ГўВҖВқ answered the baroness.

And yet, as she could scarcely breathe, she rose and went towards a
looking-glass. ГўВҖВңI am frightful tonight,ГўВҖВқ she said. Debray rose,
smiling, and was about to contradict the baroness upon this latter
point, when the door opened suddenly. M. Danglars appeared; Debray
reseated himself. At the noise of the door Madame Danglars turned
round, and looked upon her husband with an astonishment she took no
trouble to conceal.

ГўВҖВңGood-evening, madame,ГўВҖВқ said the banker; ГўВҖВңgood-evening, M. Debray.ГўВҖВқ

Probably the baroness thought this unexpected visit signified a desire
to make up for the sharp words he had uttered during the day. Assuming
a dignified air, she turned round to Debray, without answering her
husband.

ГўВҖВңRead me something, M. Debray,ГўВҖВқ she said. Debray, who was slightly
disturbed at this visit, recovered himself when he saw the calmness of
the baroness, and took up a book marked by a mother-of-pearl knife
inlaid with gold.

ГўВҖВңExcuse me,ГўВҖВқ said the banker, ГўВҖВңbut you will tire yourself, baroness, by
such late hours, and M. Debray lives some distance from here.ГўВҖВқ

Debray was petrified, not only to hear Danglars speak so calmly and
politely, but because it was apparent that beneath outward politeness
there really lurked a determined spirit of opposition to anything his
wife might wish to do. The baroness was also surprised, and showed her
astonishment by a look which would doubtless have had some effect upon
her husband if he had not been intently occupied with the paper, where
he was looking to see the closing stock quotations. The result was,
that the proud look entirely failed of its purpose.

ГўВҖВңM. Lucien,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, ГўВҖВңI assure you I have no desire to
sleep, and that I have a thousand things to tell you this evening,
which you must listen to, even though you slept while hearing me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am at your service, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Lucien coldly.

ГўВҖВңMy dear M. Debray,ГўВҖВқ said the banker, ГўВҖВңdo not kill yourself tonight
listening to the follies of Madame Danglars, for you can hear them as
well tomorrow; but I claim tonight and will devote it, if you will
allow me, to talk over some serious matters with my wife.ГўВҖВқ

This time the blow was so well aimed, and hit so directly, that Lucien
and the baroness were staggered, and they interrogated each other with
their eyes, as if to seek help against this aggression, but the
irresistible will of the master of the house prevailed, and the husband
was victorious.

ГўВҖВңDo not think I wish to turn you out, my dear Debray,ГўВҖВқ continued
Danglars; ГўВҖВңoh, no, not at all. An unexpected occurrence forces me to
ask my wife to have a little conversation with me; it is so rarely I
make such a request, I am sure you cannot grudge it to me.ГўВҖВқ

Debray muttered something, bowed and went out, knocking himself against
the edge of the door, like Nathan in _Athalie_.

ГўВҖВңIt is extraordinary,ГўВҖВқ he said, when the door was closed behind him,
ГўВҖВңhow easily these husbands, whom we ridicule, gain an advantage over
us.ГўВҖВқ

30241m



Lucien having left, Danglars took his place on the sofa, closed the
open book, and placing himself in a dreadfully dictatorial attitude, he
began playing with the dog; but the animal, not liking him as well as
Debray, and attempting to bite him, Danglars seized him by the skin of
his neck and threw him upon a couch on the other side of the room. The
animal uttered a cry during the transit, but, arrived at its
destination, it crouched behind the cushions, and stupefied at such
unusual treatment remained silent and motionless.

ГўВҖВңDo you know, sir,ГўВҖВқ asked the baroness, ГўВҖВңthat you are improving?
Generally you are only rude, but tonight you are brutal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is because I am in a worse humor than usual,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars.
Hermine looked at the banker with supreme disdain. These glances
frequently exasperated the pride of Danglars, but this evening he took
no notice of them.

ГўВҖВңAnd what have I to do with your ill-humor?ГўВҖВқ said the baroness,
irritated at the impassibility of her husband; ГўВҖВңdo these things concern
me? Keep your ill-humor at home in your money boxes, or, since you have
clerks whom you pay, vent it upon them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot so,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars; ГўВҖВңyour advice is wrong, so I shall not
follow it. My money boxes are my Pactolus, as, I think, M. Demoustier
says, and I will not retard its course, or disturb its calm. My clerks
are honest men, who earn my fortune, whom I pay much below their
deserts, if I may value them according to what they bring in; therefore
I shall not get into a passion with them; those with whom I will be in
a passion are those who eat my dinners, mount my horses, and exhaust my
fortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd pray who are the persons who exhaust your fortune? Explain
yourself more clearly, I beg, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, make yourself easy!ГўВҖВ”I am not speaking riddles, and you will soon
know what I mean. The people who exhaust my fortune are those who draw
out 700,000 francs in the course of an hour.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not understand you, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, trying to disguise
the agitation of her voice and the flush of her face.

ГўВҖВңYou understand me perfectly, on the contrary,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars: ГўВҖВңbut, if
you will persist, I will tell you that I have just lost 700,000 francs
upon the Spanish loan.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd pray,ГўВҖВқ asked the baroness, ГўВҖВңam I responsible for this loss?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it my fault you have lost 700,000 francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly it is not mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnce for all, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the baroness sharply, ГўВҖВңI tell you I will
not hear cash named; it is a style of language I never heard in the
house of my parents or in that of my first husband.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I can well believe that, for neither of them was worth a penny.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe better reason for my not being conversant with the slang of the
bank, which is here dinning in my ears from morning to night; that
noise of jingling crowns, which are constantly being counted and
re-counted, is odious to me. I only know one thing I dislike more,
which is the sound of your voice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars. ГўВҖВңWell, this surprises me, for I thought you
took the liveliest interest in all my affairs!ГўВҖВқ

30243m



ГўВҖВңI? What could put such an idea into your head?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh?ГўВҖВ”what next?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMost assuredly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should like to know upon what occasion?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, _mon Dieu!_ that is very easily done. Last February you were the
first who told me of the Haitian funds. You had dreamed that a ship had
entered the harbor at Le Havre, that this ship brought news that a
payment we had looked upon as lost was going to be made. I know how
clear-sighted your dreams are; I therefore purchased immediately as
many shares as I could of the Haitian debt, and I gained 400,000 francs
by it, of which 100,000 have been honestly paid to you. You spent it as
you pleased; that was your business. In March there was a question
about a grant to a railway. Three companies presented themselves, each
offering equal securities. You told me that your instinct,ГўВҖВ”and although
you pretend to know nothing about speculations, I think on the
contrary, that your comprehension is very clear upon certain
affairs,ГўВҖВ”well, you told me that your instinct led you to believe the
grant would be given to the company called the Southern. I bought two
thirds of the shares of that company; as you had foreseen, the shares
trebled in value, and I picked up a million, from which 250,000 francs
were paid to you for pin-money. How have you spent this 250,000
francs?ГўВҖВ”it is no business of mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen are you coming to the point?ГўВҖВқ cried the baroness, shivering with
anger and impatience.

ГўВҖВңPatience, madame, I am coming to it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs fortunate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn April you went to dine at the ministerГўВҖВҷs. You heard a private
conversation respecting Spanish affairsГўВҖВ”on the expulsion of Don Carlos.
I bought some Spanish shares. The expulsion took place and I pocketed
600,000 francs the day Charles V. repassed the Bidassoa. Of these
600,000 francs you took 50,000 crowns. They were yours, you disposed of
them according to your fancy, and I asked no questions; but it is not
the less true that you have this year received 500,000 livres.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir, and what then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes, it was just after this that you spoiled everything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, your manner of speakingГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt expresses my meaning, and that is all I want. Well, three days
after that you talked politics with M. Debray, and you fancied from his
words that Don Carlos had returned to Spain. Well, I sold my shares,
the news got out, and I no longer soldГўВҖВ”I gave them away, next day I
find the news was false, and by this false report I have lost 700,000
francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, since I gave you a fourth of my gains, I think you owe me a
fourth of my losses; the fourth of 700,000 francs is 175,000 francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat you say is absurd, and I cannot see why M. DebrayГўВҖВҷs name is mixed
up in this affair.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause if you do not possess the 175,000 francs I reclaim, you must
have lent them to your friends, and M. Debray is one of your friends.ГўВҖВқ

30245m



ГўВҖВңFor shame!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the baroness.

ГўВҖВңOh, let us have no gestures, no screams, no modern drama, or you will
oblige me to tell you that I see Debray leave here, pocketing the whole
of the 500,000 livres you have handed over to him this year, while he
smiles to himself, saying that he has found what the most skilful
players have never discoveredГўВҖВ”that is, a roulette where he wins without
playing, and is no loser when he loses.ГўВҖВқ

The baroness became enraged.

ГўВҖВңWretch!ГўВҖВқ she cried, ГўВҖВңwill you dare to tell me you did not know what
you now reproach me with?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not say that I did know it, and I do not say that I did not know
it. I merely tell you to look into my conduct during the last four
years that we have ceased to be husband and wife, and see whether it
has not always been consistent. Some time after our rupture, you wished
to study music, under the celebrated baritone who made such a
successful appearance at the ThГғВ©ГғВўtre Italien; at the same time I felt
inclined to learn dancing of the _danseuse_ who acquired such a
reputation in London. This cost me, on your account and mine, 100,000
francs. I said nothing, for we must have peace in the house; and
100,000 francs for a lady and gentleman to be properly instructed in
music and dancing are not too much. Well, you soon become tired of
singing, and you take a fancy to study diplomacy with the ministerГўВҖВҷs
secretary. You understand, it signifies nothing to me so long as you
pay for your lessons out of your own cash box. But today I find you are
drawing on mine, and that your apprenticeship may cost me 700,000
francs per month. Stop there, madame, for this cannot last. Either the
diplomatist must give his lessons gratis, and I will tolerate him, or
he must never set his foot again in my house;ГўВҖВ”do you understand,
madame?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, this is too much,ГўВҖВқ cried Hermine, choking, ГўВҖВңyou are worse than
despicable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ continued Danglars, ГўВҖВңI find you did not even pause thereГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңInsults!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right; let us leave these facts alone, and reason coolly. I
have never interfered in your affairs excepting for your good; treat me
in the same way. You say you have nothing to do with my cash box. Be it
so. Do as you like with your own, but do not fill or empty mine.
Besides, how do I know that this was not a political trick, that the
minister enraged at seeing me in the opposition, and jealous of the
popular sympathy I excite, has not concerted with M. Debray to ruin
me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA probable thing!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy not? Who ever heard of such an occurrence as this?ГўВҖВ”a false
telegraphic despatchГўВҖВ”it is almost impossible for wrong signals to be
made as they were in the last two telegrams. It was done on purpose for
meГўВҖВ”I am sure of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness humbly, ГўВҖВңare you not aware that the man
employed there was dismissed, that they talked of going to law with
him, that orders were issued to arrest him and that this order would
have been put into execution if he had not escaped by flight, which
proves that he was either mad or guilty? It was a mistake.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, which made fools laugh, which caused the minister to have a
sleepless night, which has caused the ministerГўВҖВҷs secretaries to blacken
several sheets of paper, but which has cost me 700,000 francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Hermine suddenly, ГўВҖВңif all this is, as you say, caused
by M. Debray, why, instead of going direct to him, do you come and tell
me of it? Why, to accuse the man, do you address the woman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo I know M. Debray?ГўВҖВ”do I wish to know him?ГўВҖВ”do I wish to know that he
gives advice?ГўВҖВ”do I wish to follow it?ГўВҖВ”do I speculate? No; you do all
this, not I.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill it seems to me, that as you profit by itГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Danglars shrugged his shoulders. ГўВҖВңFoolish creature,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed.
ГўВҖВңWomen fancy they have talent because they have managed two or three
intrigues without being the talk of Paris! But know that if you had
even hidden your irregularities from your husband, who has but the
commencement of the artГўВҖВ”for generally husbands _will_ not seeГўВҖВ”you would
then have been but a faint imitation of most of your friends among the
women of the world. But it has not been so with me,ГўВҖВ”I see, and always
have seen, during the last sixteen years. You may, perhaps, have hidden
a thought; but not a step, not an action, not a fault, has escaped me,
while you flattered yourself upon your address, and firmly believed you
had deceived me. What has been the result?ГўВҖВ”that, thanks to my pretended
ignorance, there is none of your friends, from M. de Villefort to M.
Debray, who has not trembled before me. There is not one who has not
treated me as the master of the house,ГўВҖВ”the only title I desire with
respect to you; there is not one, in fact, who would have dared to
speak of me as I have spoken of them this day. I will allow you to make
me hateful, but I will prevent your rendering me ridiculous, and, above
all, I forbid you to ruin me.ГўВҖВқ

The baroness had been tolerably composed until the name of Villefort
had been pronounced; but then she became pale, and, rising, as if
touched by a spring, she stretched out her hands as though conjuring an
apparition; she then took two or three steps towards her husband, as
though to tear the secret from him, of which he was ignorant, or which
he withheld from some odious calculation,ГўВҖВ”odious, as all his
calculations were.

ГўВҖВңM. de Villefort!ГўВҖВ”What do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean that M. de Nargonne, your first husband, being neither a
philosopher nor a banker, or perhaps being both, and seeing there was
nothing to be got out of a kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, died of grief or anger at
finding, after an absence of nine months, that you had been _enceinte_
six. I am brutal,ГўВҖВ”I not only allow it, but boast of it; it is one of
the reasons of my success in commercial business. Why did he kill
himself instead of you? Because he had no cash to save. My life belongs
to my cash. M. Debray has made me lose 700,000 francs; let him bear his
share of the loss, and we will go on as before; if not, let him become
bankrupt for the 250,000 livres, and do as all bankrupts doГўВҖВ”disappear.
He is a charming fellow, I allow, when his news is correct; but when it
is not, there are fifty others in the world who would do better than
he.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars was rooted to the spot; she made a violent effort to
reply to this last attack, but she fell upon a chair thinking of
Villefort, of the dinner scene, of the strange series of misfortunes
which had taken place in her house during the last few days, and
changed the usual calm of her establishment to a scene of scandalous
debate.

Danglars did not even look at her, though she did her best to faint. He
shut the bedroom door after him, without adding another word, and
returned to his apartments; and when Madame Danglars recovered from her
half-fainting condition, she could almost believe that she had had a
disagreeable dream.



 Chapter 66. Matrimonial Projects

The day following this scene, at the hour Debray usually chose to pay a
visit to Madame Danglars on his way to his office, his _coupГғВ©_ did not
appear. At this time, that is, about half-past twelve, Madame Danglars
ordered her carriage, and went out. Danglars, hidden behind a curtain,
watched the departure he had been waiting for. He gave orders that he
should be informed as soon as Madame Danglars appeared; but at two
oГўВҖВҷclock she had not returned. He then called for his horses, drove to
the Chamber, and inscribed his name to speak against the budget. From
twelve to two oГўВҖВҷclock Danglars had remained in his study, unsealing his
dispatches, and becoming more and more sad every minute, heaping figure
upon figure, and receiving, among other visits, one from Major
Cavalcanti, who, as stiff and exact as ever, presented himself
precisely at the hour named the night before, to terminate his business
with the banker.

On leaving the Chamber, Danglars, who had shown violent marks of
agitation during the sitting, and been more bitter than ever against
the ministry, re-entered his carriage, and told the coachman to drive
to the Avenue des Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, No. 30.

Monte Cristo was at home; only he was engaged with someone and begged
Danglars to wait for a moment in the drawing-room. While the banker was
waiting in the anteroom, the door opened, and a man dressed as an abbГғВ©
and doubtless more familiar with the house than he was, came in and
instead of waiting, merely bowed, passed on to the farther apartments,
and disappeared.

A minute after the door by which the priest had entered reopened, and
Monte Cristo appeared.

ГўВҖВңPardon me,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңmy dear baron, but one of my friends, the AbbГғВ©
Busoni, whom you perhaps saw pass by, has just arrived in Paris; not
having seen him for a long time, I could not make up my mind to leave
him sooner, so I hope this will be sufficient reason for my having made
you wait.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңit is my fault; I have chosen my visit at a
wrong time, and will retire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all; on the contrary, be seated; but what is the matter with
you? You look careworn; really, you alarm me. Melancholy in a
capitalist, like the appearance of a comet, presages some misfortune to
the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have been in ill-luck for several days,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңand I have
heard nothing but bad news.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңHave you had another fall at the
Bourse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; I am safe for a few days at least. I am only annoyed about a
bankrupt of Trieste.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally? Does it happen to be Jacopo Manfredi?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly so. Imagine a man who has transacted business with me for I
donГўВҖВҷt know how long, to the amount of 800,000 or 900,000 francs during
the year. Never a mistake or delayГўВҖВ”a fellow who paid like a prince.
Well, I was a million in advance with him, and now my fine Jacopo
Manfredi suspends payment!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is an unheard-of fatality. I draw upon him for 600,000 francs, my
bills are returned unpaid, and, more than that, I hold bills of
exchange signed by him to the value of 400,000 francs, payable at his
correspondentГўВҖВҷs in Paris at the end of this month. Today is the 30th. I
present them; but my correspondent has disappeared. This, with my
Spanish affairs, made a pretty end to the month.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you really lost by that affair in Spain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; only 700,000 francs out of my cash boxГўВҖВ”nothing more!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, how could you make such a mistakeГўВҖВ”such an old stager?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is all my wifeГўВҖВҷs fault. She dreamed Don Carlos had returned to
Spain; she believes in dreams. It is magnetism, she says, and when she
dreams a thing it is sure to happen, she assures me. On this conviction
I allow her to speculate, she having her bank and her stockbroker; she
speculated and lost. It is true she speculates with her own money, not
mine; nevertheless, you can understand that when 700,000 francs leave
the wifeГўВҖВҷs pocket, the husband always finds it out. But do you mean to
say you have not heard of this? Why, the thing has made a tremendous
noise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I heard it spoken of, but I did not know the details, and then no
one can be more ignorant than I am of the affairs in the Bourse.ГўВҖВқ

30251m



ГўВҖВңThen you do not speculate?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВ”How could I speculate when I already have so much trouble in
regulating my income? I should be obliged, besides my steward, to keep
a clerk and a boy. But touching these Spanish affairs, I think that the
baroness did not dream the whole of the Don Carlos matter. The papers
said something about it, did they not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you believe the papers?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВ”not the least in the world; only I fancied that the honest
_Messager_ was an exception to the rule, and that it only announced
telegraphic despatches.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, thatГўВҖВҷs what puzzles me,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars; ГўВҖВңthe news of the
return of Don Carlos was brought by telegraph.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo that,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou have lost nearly 1,700,000 francs
this month.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot nearly, indeed; that is exactly my loss.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Diable!_ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo compassionately, ГўВҖВңit is a hard blow for a
third-rate fortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThird-rate,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, rather humble, ГўВҖВңwhat do you mean by that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ continued Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI make three assortments in
fortuneГўВҖВ”first-rate, second-rate, and third-rate fortunes. I call those
first-rate which are composed of treasures one possesses under oneГўВҖВҷs
hand, such as mines, lands, and funded property, in such states as
France, Austria, and England, provided these treasures and property
form a total of about a hundred millions; I call those second-rate
fortunes, that are gained by manufacturing enterprises, joint-stock
companies, viceroyalties, and principalities, not drawing more than
1,500,000 francs, the whole forming a capital of about fifty millions;
finally, I call those third-rate fortunes, which are composed of a
fluctuating capital, dependent upon the will of others, or upon chances
which a bankruptcy involves or a false telegram shakes, such as banks,
speculations of the dayГўВҖВ”in fact, all operations under the influence of
greater or less mischances, the whole bringing in a real or fictitious
capital of about fifteen millions. I think this is about your position,
is it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңConfound it, yes!ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars.

ГўВҖВңThe result, then, of six more such months as this would be to reduce
the third-rate house to despair.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, becoming very pale, how you are running on!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us imagine seven such months,ГўВҖВқ continued Monte Cristo, in the same
tone. ГўВҖВңTell me, have you ever thought that seven times 1,700,000 francs
make nearly twelve millions? No, you have not;ГўВҖВ”well, you are right, for
if you indulged in such reflections, you would never risk your
principal, which is to the speculator what the skin is to civilized
man. We have our clothes, some more splendid than others,ГўВҖВ”this is our
credit; but when a man dies he has only his skin; in the same way, on
retiring from business, you have nothing but your real principal of
about five or six millions, at the most; for third-rate fortunes are
never more than a fourth of what they appear to be, like the locomotive
on a railway, the size of which is magnified by the smoke and steam
surrounding it. Well, out of the five or six millions which form your
real capital, you have just lost nearly two millions, which must, of
course, in the same degree diminish your credit and fictitious fortune;
to follow out my simile, your skin has been opened by bleeding, and
this if repeated three or four times will cause deathГўВҖВ”so pay attention
to it, my dear Monsieur Danglars. Do you want money? Do you wish me to
lend you some?ГўВҖВқ

30253m



ГўВҖВңWhat a bad calculator you are!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Danglars, calling to his
assistance all his philosophy and dissimulation. ГўВҖВңI have made money at
the same time by speculations which have succeeded. I have made up the
loss of blood by nutrition. I lost a battle in Spain, I have been
defeated in Trieste, but my naval army in India will have taken some
galleons, and my Mexican pioneers will have discovered some mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery good, very good! But the wound remains and will reopen at the
first loss.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, for I am only embarked in certainties,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, with the
air of a mountebank sounding his own praises; ГўВҖВңto involve me, three
governments must crumble to dust.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, such things have been.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat there should be a famine!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRecollect the seven fat and the seven lean kine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOr, that the sea should become dry, as in the days of Pharaoh, and
even then my vessels would become caravans.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the better. I congratulate you, my dear M. Danglars,ГўВҖВқ said
Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI see I was deceived, and that you belong to the class
of second-rate fortunes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think I may aspire to that honor,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars with a smile, which
reminded Monte Cristo of the sickly moons which bad artists are so fond
of daubing into their pictures of ruins. ГўВҖВңBut, while we are speaking of
business,ГўВҖВқ Danglars added, pleased to find an opportunity of changing
the subject, ГўВҖВңtell me what I am to do for M. Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGive him money, if he is recommended to you, and the recommendation
seems good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcellent; he presented himself this morning with a bond of 40,000
francs, payable at sight, on you, signed by Busoni, and returned by you
to me, with your endorsementГўВҖВ”of course, I immediately counted him over
the forty bank-notes.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo nodded his head in token of assent.

ГўВҖВңBut that is not all,ГўВҖВқ continued Danglars; ГўВҖВңhe has opened an account
with my house for his son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMay I ask how much he allows the young man?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFive thousand francs per month.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSixty thousand francs per year. I thought I was right in believing
that Cavalcanti to be a stingy fellow. How can a young man live upon
5,000 francs a month?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you understand that if the young man should want a few thousands
moreГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not advance it; the father will never repay it. You do not know
these ultramontane millionaires; they are regular misers. And by whom
were they recommended to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, by the house of Fenzi, one of the best in Florence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not mean to say you will lose, but, nevertheless, mind you hold
to the terms of the agreement.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWould you not trust the Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI? oh, I would advance ten millions on his signature. I was only
speaking in reference to the second-rate fortunes we were mentioning
just now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd with all this, how unassuming he is! I should never have taken him
for anything more than a mere major.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you would have flattered him, for certainly, as you say, he has no
manner. The first time I saw him he appeared to me like an old
lieutenant who had grown mouldy under his epaulets. But all the
Italians are the same; they are like old Jews when they are not
glittering in Oriental splendor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe young man is better,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңYes; a little nervous, perhaps, but, upon the whole, he appeared
tolerable. I was uneasy about him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause you met him at my house, just after his introduction into the
world, as they told me. He has been travelling with a very severe
tutor, and had never been to Paris before.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, I believe noblemen marry amongst themselves, do they not?ГўВҖВқ asked
Danglars carelessly; ГўВҖВңthey like to unite their fortunes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is usual, certainly; but Cavalcanti is an original who does nothing
like other people. I cannot help thinking that he has brought his son
to France to choose a wife.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am sure of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you have heard his fortune mentioned?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing else was talked of; only some said he was worth millions, and
others that he did not possess a farthing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is your opinion?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI ought not to influence you, because it is only my own personal
impression.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, and it is thatГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy opinion is, that all these old _podestГғВ s_, these ancient
_condottieri_,ГўВҖВ”for the Cavalcanti have commanded armies and governed
provinces,ГўВҖВ”my opinion, I say, is, that they have buried their millions
in corners, the secret of which they have transmitted only to their
eldest sons, who have done the same from generation to generation; and
the proof of this is seen in their yellow and dry appearance, like the
florins of the republic, which, from being constantly gazed upon, have
become reflected in them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңand this is further supported by the fact
of their not possessing an inch of land.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery little, at least; I know of none which Cavalcanti possesses,
excepting his palace in Lucca.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, he has a palace?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, laughing; ГўВҖВңcome, that is
something.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; and more than that, he lets it to the Minister of Finance while
he lives in a simple house. Oh, as I told you before, I think the old
fellow is very close.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, you do not flatter him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI scarcely know him; I think I have seen him three times in my life;
all I know relating to him is through Busoni and himself. He was
telling me this morning that, tired of letting his property lie dormant
in Italy, which is a dead nation, he wished to find a method, either in
France or England, of multiplying his millions, but remember, that
though I place great confidence in Busoni, I am not responsible for
this.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind; accept my thanks for the client you have sent me. It is a
fine name to inscribe on my ledgers, and my cashier was quite proud of
it when I explained to him who the Cavalcanti were. By the way, this is
merely a simple question, when this sort of people marry their sons, do
they give them any fortune?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that depends upon circumstances. I know an Italian prince, rich as
a gold mine, one of the noblest families in Tuscany, who, when his sons
married according to his wish, gave them millions; and when they
married against his consent, merely allowed them thirty crowns a month.
Should Andrea marry according to his fatherГўВҖВҷs views, he will, perhaps,
give him one, two, or three millions. For example, supposing it were
the daughter of a banker, he might take an interest in the house of the
father-in-law of his son; then again, if he disliked his choice, the
major takes the key, double-locks his coffer, and Master Andrea would
be obliged to live like the sons of a Parisian family, by shuffling
cards or rattling the dice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that boy will find out some Bavarian or Peruvian princess; he will
want a crown, an El Dorado, and PotosГғВӯ.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; these grand lords on the other side of the Alps frequently marry
into plain families; like Jupiter, they like to cross the race. But do
you wish to marry Andrea, my dear M. Danglars, that you are asking so
many questions?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңit would not be a bad speculation, I fancy,
and you know I am a speculator.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are not thinking of Mademoiselle Danglars, I hope; you would not
like poor Andrea to have his throat cut by Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlbert,ГўВҖВқ repeated Danglars, shrugging his shoulders; ГўВҖВңah, well; he
would care very little about it, I think.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut he is betrothed to your daughter, I believe?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, M. de Morcerf and I have talked about this marriage, but Madame
de Morcerf and AlbertГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not mean to say that it would not be a good match?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, I imagine that Mademoiselle Danglars is as good as M. de
Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle DanglarsГўВҖВҷ fortune will be great, no doubt, especially if
the telegraph should not make any more mistakes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I do not mean her fortune only; but tell meГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy did you not invite M. and Madame de Morcerf to your dinner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did so, but he excused himself on account of Madame de Morcerf being
obliged to go to Dieppe for the benefit of sea air.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, laughing, ГўВҖВңit would do her a great deal of
good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause it is the air she always breathed in her youth.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo took no notice of this ill-natured remark.

ГўВҖВңBut still, if Albert be not so rich as Mademoiselle Danglars,ГўВҖВқ said
the count, ГўВҖВңyou must allow that he has a fine name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo he has; but I like mine as well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; your name is popular, and does honor to the title they have
adorned it with; but you are too intelligent not to know that according
to a prejudice, too firmly rooted to be exterminated, a nobility which
dates back five centuries is worth more than one that can only reckon
twenty years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd for this very reason,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars with a smile, which he tried
to make sardonic, ГўВҖВңI prefer M. Andrea Cavalcanti to M. Albert de
Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, I should not think the Morcerfs would yield to the Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Morcerfs!ГўВҖВ”Stay, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңyou are a man of
the world, are you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you understand heraldry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA little.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, look at my coat-of-arms, it is worth more than MorcerfГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause, though I am not a baron by birth, my real name is, at least,
Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhile his name is not Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow?ГўВҖВ”not Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot the least in the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have been made a baron, so that I actually am one; he made himself a
count, so that he is not one at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpossible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen my dear count; M. de Morcerf has been my friend, or rather my
acquaintance, during the last thirty years. You know I have made the
most of my arms, though I never forgot my origin.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA proof of great humility or great pride,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWell, when I was a clerk, Morcerf was a mere fisherman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd then he was calledГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFernand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnly Fernand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFernand Mondego.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are sure?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu!_ I have bought enough fish of him to know his name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, why did you think of giving your daughter to him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause Fernand and Danglars, being both parvenus, both having become
noble, both rich, are about equal in worth, excepting that there have
been certain things mentioned of him that were never said of me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, nothing!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes; what you tell me recalls to mind something about the name of
Fernand Mondego. I have heard that name in Greece.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn conjunction with the affairs of Ali Pasha?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is the mystery,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars. ГўВҖВңI acknowledge I would have given
anything to find it out.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt would be very easy if you much wished it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProbably you have some correspondent in Greece?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should think so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt Yanina?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverywhere.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, write to your correspondent in Yanina, and ask him what part was
played by a Frenchman named Fernand Mondego in the catastrophe of Ali
Tepelini.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Danglars, rising quickly, ГўВҖВңI will write
today.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will.ГўВҖВқ

30259m



ГўВҖВңAnd if you should hear of anything very scandalousГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will communicate it to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will oblige me.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars rushed out of the room, and made but one leap into his
_coupГғВ©_.



 Chapter 67. The Office of the KingГўВҖВҷs Attorney

Let us leave the banker driving his horses at their fullest speed, and
follow Madame Danglars in her morning excursion. We have said that at
half-past twelve oГўВҖВҷclock Madame Danglars had ordered her horses, and
had left home in the carriage. She directed her course towards the
Faubourg Saint Germain, went down the Rue Mazarine, and stopped at the
Passage du Pont-Neuf. She descended, and went through the passage. She
was very plainly dressed, as would be the case with a woman of taste
walking in the morning. At the Rue GuГғВ©nГғВ©gaud she called a cab, and
directed the driver to go to the Rue de Harlay. As soon as she was
seated in the vehicle, she drew from her pocket a very thick black
veil, which she tied on to her straw bonnet. She then replaced the
bonnet, and saw with pleasure, in a little pocket-mirror, that her
white complexion and brilliant eyes were alone visible. The cab crossed
the Pont-Neuf and entered the Rue de Harlay by the Place Dauphine; the
driver was paid as the door opened, and stepping lightly up the stairs
Madame Danglars soon reached the Salle des Pas-Perdus.

There was a great deal going on that morning, and many business-like
persons at the Palais; business-like persons pay very little attention
to women, and Madame Danglars crossed the hall without exciting any
more attention than any other woman calling upon her lawyer.

There was a great press of people in M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs antechamber, but
Madame Danglars had no occasion even to pronounce her name. The instant
she appeared the door-keeper rose, came to her, and asked her whether
she was not the person with whom the procureur had made an appointment;
and on her affirmative answer being given, he conducted her by a
private passage to M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs office.

The magistrate was seated in an armchair, writing, with his back
towards the door; he did not move as he heard it open, and the
door-keeper pronounce the words, ГўВҖВңWalk in, madame,ГўВҖВқ and then reclose
it; but no sooner had the manГўВҖВҷs footsteps ceased, than he started up,
drew the bolts, closed the curtains, and examined every corner of the
room. Then, when he had assured himself that he could neither be seen
nor heard, and was consequently relieved of doubts, he said:

ГўВҖВңThanks, madame,ГўВҖВ”thanks for your punctuality;ГўВҖВқ and he offered a chair
to Madame Danglars, which she accepted, for her heart beat so violently
that she felt nearly suffocated.

30261m



ГўВҖВңIt is a long time, madame,ГўВҖВқ said the procureur, describing a
half-circle with his chair, so as to place himself exactly opposite to
Madame Danglars,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңit is a long time since I had the pleasure of
speaking alone with you, and I regret that we have only now met to
enter upon a painful conversation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNevertheless, sir, you see I have answered your first appeal, although
certainly the conversation must be much more painful for me than for
you.ГўВҖВқ Villefort smiled bitterly.

ГўВҖВңIt is true, then,ГўВҖВқ he said, rather uttering his thoughts aloud than
addressing his companion,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңit is true, then, that all our actions leave
their tracesГўВҖВ”some sad, others brightГўВҖВ”on our paths; it is true that
every step in our lives is like the course of an insect on the
sands;ГўВҖВ”it leaves its track! Alas, to many the path is traced by tears.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңyou can feel for my emotion, can you not?
Spare me, then, I beseech you. When I look at this room,ГўВҖВ”whence so many
guilty creatures have departed, trembling and ashamed, when I look at
that chair before which I now sit trembling and ashamed,ГўВҖВ”oh, it
requires all my reason to convince me that I am not a very guilty woman
and you a menacing judge.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort dropped his head and sighed.

ГўВҖВңAnd I,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңI feel that my place is not in the judgeГўВҖВҷs seat, but
on the prisonerГўВҖВҷs bench.ГўВҖВқ

30263m



ГўВҖВңYou?ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars.

ГўВҖВңYes, I.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think, sir, you exaggerate your situation,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars,
whose beautiful eyes sparkled for a moment. ГўВҖВңThe paths of which you
were just speaking have been traced by all young men of ardent
imaginations. Besides the pleasure, there is always remorse from the
indulgence of our passions, and, after all, what have you men to fear
from all this? the world excuses, and notoriety ennobles you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, ГўВҖВңyou know that I am no hypocrite, or, at
least, that I never deceive without a reason. If my brow be severe, it
is because many misfortunes have clouded it; if my heart be petrified,
it is that it might sustain the blows it has received. I was not so in
my youth, I was not so on the night of the betrothal, when we were all
seated around a table in the Rue du Cours at Marseilles. But since then
everything has changed in and about me; I am accustomed to brave
difficulties, and, in the conflict to crush those who, by their own
free will, or by chance, voluntarily or involuntarily, interfere with
me in my career. It is generally the case that what we most ardently
desire is as ardently withheld from us by those who wish to obtain it,
or from whom we attempt to snatch it. Thus, the greater number of a
manГўВҖВҷs errors come before him disguised under the specious form of
necessity; then, after error has been committed in a moment of
excitement, of delirium, or of fear, we see that we might have avoided
and escaped it. The means we might have used, which we in our blindness
could not see, then seem simple and easy, and we say, ГўВҖВҳWhy did I not do
this, instead of that?ГўВҖВҷ Women, on the contrary, are rarely tormented
with remorse; for the decision does not come from you,ГўВҖВ”your misfortunes
are generally imposed upon you, and your faults the results of othersГўВҖВҷ
crimes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn any case, sir, you will allow,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat,
even if the fault were alone mine, I last night received a severe
punishment for it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor thing,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, pressing her hand, ГўВҖВңit was too severe for
your strength, for you were twice overwhelmed, and yetГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I must tell you. Collect all your courage, for you have not yet
heard all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Madame Danglars, alarmed, ГўВҖВңwhat is there more to hear?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou only look back to the past, and it is, indeed, bad enough. Well,
picture to yourself a future more gloomy stillГўВҖВ”certainly frightful,
perhaps sanguinary!ГўВҖВқ

The baroness knew how calm Villefort naturally was, and his present
excitement frightened her so much that she opened her mouth to scream,
but the sound died in her throat.

ГўВҖВңHow has this terrible past been recalled?ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort; ГўВҖВңhow is it
that it has escaped from the depths of the tomb and the recesses of our
hearts, where it was buried, to visit us now, like a phantom, whitening
our cheeks and flushing our brows with shame?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ said Hermine, ГўВҖВңdoubtless it is chance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңChance?ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort; ГўВҖВңNo, no, madame, there is no such thing as
chance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes; has not a fatal chance revealed all this? Was it not by
chance the Count of Monte Cristo bought that house? Was it not by
chance he caused the earth to be dug up? Is it not by chance that the
unfortunate child was disinterred under the trees?ГўВҖВ”that poor innocent
offspring of mine, which I never even kissed, but for whom I wept many,
many tears. Ah, my heart clung to the count when he mentioned the dear
spoil found beneath the flowers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, no, madame,ГўВҖВ”this is the terrible news I have to tell you,ГўВҖВқ said
Villefort in a hollow voiceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңno, nothing was found beneath the flowers;
there was no child disinterredГўВҖВ”no. You must not weep, no, you must not
groan, you must tremble!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat can you mean?ГўВҖВқ asked Madame Danglars, shuddering.

ГўВҖВңI mean that M. de Monte Cristo, digging underneath these trees, found
neither skeleton nor chest, because neither of them was there!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNeither of them there?ГўВҖВқ repeated Madame Danglars, her staring,
wide-open eyes expressing her alarm. ГўВҖВңNeither of them there!ГўВҖВқ she again
said, as though striving to impress herself with the meaning of the
words which escaped her.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, burying his face in his hands, ГўВҖВңno, a hundred
times no!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you did not bury the poor child there, sir? Why did you deceive
me? Where did you place it? tell meГўВҖВ”where?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere! But listen to meГўВҖВ”listenГўВҖВ”and you will pity me who has for twenty
years alone borne the heavy burden of grief I am about to reveal,
without casting the least portion upon you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you frighten me! But speak; I will listen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou recollect that sad night, when you were half-expiring on that bed
in the red damask room, while I, scarcely less agitated than you,
awaited your delivery. The child was born, was given to meГўВҖВ”motionless,
breathless, voiceless; we thought it dead.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars moved rapidly, as though she would spring from her
chair, but Villefort stopped, and clasped his hands as if to implore
her attention.

ГўВҖВңWe thought it dead,ГўВҖВқ he repeated; ГўВҖВңI placed it in the chest, which was
to take the place of a coffin; I descended to the garden, I dug a hole,
and then flung it down in haste. Scarcely had I covered it with earth,
when the arm of the Corsican was stretched towards me; I saw a shadow
rise, and, at the same time, a flash of light. I felt pain; I wished to
cry out, but an icy shiver ran through my veins and stifled my voice; I
fell lifeless, and fancied myself killed. Never shall I forget your
sublime courage, when, having returned to consciousness, I dragged
myself to the foot of the stairs, and you, almost dying yourself, came
to meet me. We were obliged to keep silent upon the dreadful
catastrophe. You had the fortitude to regain the house, assisted by
your nurse. A duel was the pretext for my wound. Though we scarcely
expected it, our secret remained in our own keeping alone. I was taken
to Versailles; for three months I struggled with death; at last, as I
seemed to cling to life, I was ordered to the South. Four men carried
me from Paris to ChГғВўlons, walking six leagues a day; Madame de
Villefort followed the litter in her carriage. At ChГғВўlons I was put
upon the SaГғВҙne, thence I passed on to the RhГғВҙne, whence I descended,
merely with the current, to Arles; at Arles I was again placed on my
litter, and continued my journey to Marseilles. My recovery lasted six
months. I never heard you mentioned, and I did not dare inquire for
you. When I returned to Paris, I learned that you, the widow of M. de
Nargonne, had married M. Danglars.

ГўВҖВңWhat was the subject of my thoughts from the time consciousness
returned to me? Always the sameГўВҖВ”always the childГўВҖВҷs corpse, coming every
night in my dreams, rising from the earth, and hovering over the grave
with menacing look and gesture. I inquired immediately on my return to
Paris; the house had not been inhabited since we left it, but it had
just been let for nine years. I found the tenant. I pretended that I
disliked the idea that a house belonging to my wifeГўВҖВҷs father and mother
should pass into the hands of strangers. I offered to pay them for
cancelling the lease; they demanded 6,000 francs. I would have given
10,000ГўВҖВ”I would have given 20,000. I had the money with me; I made the
tenant sign the deed of resilition, and when I had obtained what I so
much wanted, I galloped to Auteuil. No one had entered the house since
I had left it.

ГўВҖВңIt was five oГўВҖВҷclock in the afternoon; I ascended into the red room,
and waited for night. There all the thoughts which had disturbed me
during my year of constant agony came back with double force. The
Corsican, who had declared the vendetta against me, who had followed me
from NГғВ®mes to Paris, who had hid himself in the garden, who had struck
me, had seen me dig the grave, had seen me inter the child,ГўВҖВ”he might
become acquainted with your person,ГўВҖВ”nay, he might even then have known
it. Would he not one day make you pay for keeping this terrible secret?
Would it not be a sweet revenge for him when he found that I had not
died from the blow of his dagger? It was therefore necessary, before
everything else, and at all risks, that I should cause all traces of
the past to disappearГўВҖВ”that I should destroy every material vestige; too
much reality would always remain in my recollection. It was for this I
had annulled the leaseГўВҖВ”it was for this I had comeГўВҖВ”it was for this I was
waiting.

ГўВҖВңNight arrived; I allowed it to become quite dark. I was without a
light in that room; when the wind shook all the doors, behind which I
continually expected to see some spy concealed, I trembled. I seemed
everywhere to hear your moans behind me in the bed, and I dared not
turn around. My heart beat so violently that I feared my wound would
open. At length, one by one, all the noises in the neighborhood ceased.
I understood that I had nothing to fear, that I should neither be seen
nor heard, so I decided upon descending to the garden.

ГўВҖВңListen, Hermine; I consider myself as brave as most men, but when I
drew from my breast the little key of the staircase, which I had found
in my coatГўВҖВ”that little key we both used to cherish so much, which you
wished to have fastened to a golden ringГўВҖВ”when I opened the door, and
saw the pale moon shedding a long stream of white light on the spiral
staircase like a spectre, I leaned against the wall, and nearly
shrieked. I seemed to be going mad. At last I mastered my agitation. I
descended the staircase step by step; the only thing I could not
conquer was a strange trembling in my knees. I grasped the railings; if
I had relaxed my hold for a moment, I should have fallen. I reached the
lower door. Outside this door a spade was placed against the wall; I
took it, and advanced towards the thicket. I had provided myself with a
dark lantern. In the middle of the lawn I stopped to light it, then I
continued my path.

ГўВҖВңIt was the end of November, all the verdure of the garden had
disappeared, the trees were nothing more than skeletons with their long
bony arms, and the dead leaves sounded on the gravel under my feet. My
terror overcame me to such a degree as I approached the thicket, that I
took a pistol from my pocket and armed myself. I fancied continually
that I saw the figure of the Corsican between the branches. I examined
the thicket with my dark lantern; it was empty. I looked carefully
around; I was indeed alone,ГўВҖВ”no noise disturbed the silence but the owl,
whose piercing cry seemed to be calling up the phantoms of the night. I
tied my lantern to a forked branch I had noticed a year before at the
precise spot where I stopped to dig the hole.

ГўВҖВңThe grass had grown very thickly there during the summer, and when
autumn arrived no one had been there to mow it. Still one place where
the grass was thin attracted my attention; it evidently was there I had
turned up the ground. I went to work. The hour, then, for which I had
been waiting during the last year had at length arrived. How I worked,
how I hoped, how I struck every piece of turf, thinking to find some
resistance to my spade! But no, I found nothing, though I had made a
hole twice as large as the first. I thought I had been deceivedГўВҖВ”had
mistaken the spot. I turned around, I looked at the trees, I tried to
recall the details which had struck me at the time. A cold, sharp wind
whistled through the leafless branches, and yet the drops fell from my
forehead. I recollected that I was stabbed just as I was trampling the
ground to fill up the hole; while doing so I had leaned against a
laburnum; behind me was an artificial rockery, intended to serve as a
resting-place for persons walking in the garden; in falling, my hand,
relaxing its hold of the laburnum, felt the coldness of the stone. On
my right I saw the tree, behind me the rock. I stood in the same
attitude, and threw myself down. I rose, and again began digging and
enlarging the hole; still I found nothing, nothingГўВҖВ”the chest was no
longer there!ГўВҖВқ

30269m



ГўВҖВңThe chest no longer there?ГўВҖВқ murmured Madame Danglars, choking with
fear.

ГўВҖВңThink not I contented myself with this one effort,ГўВҖВқ continued
Villefort. ГўВҖВңNo; I searched the whole thicket. I thought the assassin,
having discovered the chest, and supposing it to be a treasure, had
intended carrying it off, but, perceiving his error, had dug another
hole, and deposited it there; but I could find nothing. Then the idea
struck me that he had not taken these precautions, and had simply
thrown it in a corner. In the last case I must wait for daylight to
renew my search. I remained in the room and waited.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, Heaven!ГўВҖВқ

30271m



When daylight dawned I went down again. My first visit was to the
thicket. I hoped to find some traces which had escaped me in the
darkness. I had turned up the earth over a surface of more than twenty
feet square, and a depth of two feet. A laborer would not have done in
a day what occupied me an hour. But I could find nothingГўВҖВ”absolutely
nothing. Then I renewed the search. Supposing it had been thrown aside,
it would probably be on the path which led to the little gate; but this
examination was as useless as the first, and with a bursting heart I
returned to the thicket, which now contained no hope for me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңit was enough to drive you mad!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hoped for a moment that it might,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңbut that
happiness was denied me. However, recovering my strength and my ideas,
ГўВҖВҳWhy,ГўВҖВҷ said I, ГўВҖВҳshould that man have carried away the corpse?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you said,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңhe would require it as a
proof.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, no, madame, that could not be. Dead bodies are not kept a year;
they are shown to a magistrate, and the evidence is taken. Now, nothing
of the kind has happened.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat then?ГўВҖВқ asked Hermine, trembling violently.

ГўВҖВңSomething more terrible, more fatal, more alarming for usГўВҖВ”the child
was, perhaps, alive, and the assassin may have saved it!ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars uttered a piercing cry, and, seizing VillefortГўВҖВҷs hands,
exclaimed, ГўВҖВңMy child was alive?ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңyou buried my child alive?
You were not certain my child was dead, and you buried it? AhГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars had risen, and stood before the procureur, whose hands
she wrung in her feeble grasp.

ГўВҖВңI know not; I merely suppose so, as I might suppose anything else,ГўВҖВқ
replied Villefort with a look so fixed, it indicated that his powerful
mind was on the verge of despair and madness.

ГўВҖВңAh, my child, my poor child!ГўВҖВқ cried the baroness, falling on her
chair, and stifling her sobs in her handkerchief. Villefort, becoming
somewhat reassured, perceived that to avert the maternal storm
gathering over his head, he must inspire Madame Danglars with the
terror he felt.

ГўВҖВңYou understand, then, that if it were so,ГўВҖВқ said he, rising in his
turn, and approaching the baroness, to speak to her in a lower tone,
ГўВҖВңwe are lost. This child lives, and someone knows it livesГўВҖВ”someone is
in possession of our secret; and since Monte Cristo speaks before us of
a child disinterred, when that child could not be found, it is he who
is in possession of our secret.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust God, avenging God!ГўВҖВқ murmured Madame Danglars.

VillefortГўВҖВҷs only answer was a stifled groan.

ГўВҖВңBut the childГўВҖВ”the child, sir?ГўВҖВқ repeated the agitated mother.

ГўВҖВңHow I have searched for him,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, wringing his hands;
ГўВҖВңhow I have called him in my long sleepless nights; how I have longed
for royal wealth to purchase a million of secrets from a million of
men, and to find mine among them! At last, one day, when for the
hundredth time I took up my spade, I asked myself again and again what
the Corsican could have done with the child. A child encumbers a
fugitive; perhaps, on perceiving it was still alive, he had thrown it
into the river.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpossible!ГўВҖВқ cried Madame Danglars: ГўВҖВңa man may murder another out of
revenge, but he would not deliberately drown a child.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps,ГўВҖВқ continued Villefort, ГўВҖВңhe had put it in the foundling
hospital.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, yes,ГўВҖВқ cried the baroness; ГўВҖВңmy child is there!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI ran to the hospital, and learned that the same nightГўВҖВ”the night of
the 20th of SeptemberГўВҖВ”a child had been brought there, wrapped in part
of a fine linen napkin, purposely torn in half. This portion of the
napkin was marked with half a baronГўВҖВҷs crown, and the letter H.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTruly, truly,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңall my linen is marked thus;
Monsieur de Nargonne was a baron, and my name is Hermine. Thank God, my
child was not then dead!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, it was not dead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you can tell me so without fearing to make me die of joy? Where is
the child?ГўВҖВқ

Villefort shrugged his shoulders.

ГўВҖВңDo I know?ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңand do you believe that if I knew I would relate
to you all its trials and all its adventures as would a dramatist or a
novel writer? Alas, no, I know not. A woman, about six months after,
came to claim it with the other half of the napkin. This woman gave all
the requisite particulars, and it was intrusted to her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you should have inquired for the woman; you should have traced
her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what do you think I did? I feigned a criminal process, and
employed all the most acute bloodhounds and skilful agents in search of
her. They traced her to ChГғВўlons, and there they lost her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey lost her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, forever.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars had listened to this recital with a sigh, a tear, or a
shriek for every detail. ГўВҖВңAnd this is all?ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңand you stopped
there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңI never ceased to search and to inquire.
However, the last two or three years I had allowed myself some respite.
But now I will begin with more perseverance and fury than ever, since
fear urges me, not my conscience.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңthe Count of Monte Cristo can know
nothing, or he would not seek our society as he does.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, the wickedness of man is very great,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңsince it
surpasses the goodness of God. Did you observe that manГўВҖВҷs eyes while he
was speaking to us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut have you ever watched him carefully?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless he is capricious, but that is all; one thing alone struck
me,ГўВҖВ”of all the exquisite things he placed before us, he touched
nothing. I might have suspected he was poisoning us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you see you would have been deceived.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, doubtless.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut believe me, that man has other projects. For that reason I wished
to see you, to speak to you, to warn you against everyone, but
especially against him. Tell me,ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, fixing his eyes more
steadfastly on her than he had ever done before, ГўВҖВңdid you ever reveal
to anyone our connection?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever, to anyone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou understand me,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, affectionately; ГўВҖВңwhen I say
anyone,ГўВҖВ”pardon my urgency,ГўВҖВ”to anyone living I mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, I understand very well,ГўВҖВқ ejaculated the baroness; ГўВҖВңnever, I
swear to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWere you ever in the habit of writing in the evening what had
transpired in the morning? Do you keep a journal?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my life has been passed in frivolity; I wish to forget it myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you talk in your sleep?ГўВҖВқ

30275m



ГўВҖВңI sleep soundly, like a child; do you not remember?ГўВҖВқ

The color mounted to the baronessГўВҖВҷs face, and Villefort turned awfully
pale.

ГўВҖВңIt is true,ГўВҖВқ said he, in so low a tone that he could hardly be heard.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ said the baroness.

ГўВҖВңWell, I understand what I now have to do,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort. ГўВҖВңIn less
than one week from this time I will ascertain who this M. de Monte
Cristo is, whence he comes, where he goes, and why he speaks in our
presence of children that have been disinterred in a garden.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort pronounced these words with an accent which would have made
the count shudder had he heard him. Then he pressed the hand the
baroness reluctantly gave him, and led her respectfully back to the
door. Madame Danglars returned in another cab to the passage, on the
other side of which she found her carriage, and her coachman sleeping
peacefully on his box while waiting for her.



 Chapter 68. A Summer Ball

The same day during the interview between Madame Danglars and the
procureur, a travelling-carriage entered the Rue du Helder, passed
through the gateway of No. 27, and stopped in the yard. In a moment the
door was opened, and Madame de Morcerf alighted, leaning on her sonГўВҖВҷs
arm. Albert soon left her, ordered his horses, and having arranged his
toilet, drove to the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, to the house of Monte Cristo.

The count received him with his habitual smile. It was a strange thing
that no one ever appeared to advance a step in that manГўВҖВҷs favor. Those
who would, as it were, force a passage to his heart, found an
impassable barrier. Morcerf, who ran towards him with open arms, was
chilled as he drew near, in spite of the friendly smile, and simply
held out his hand. Monte Cristo shook it coldly, according to his
invariable practice.

ГўВҖВңHere I am, dear count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWelcome home again.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI arrived an hour since.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom Dieppe?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, from TrГғВ©port.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I have come at once to see you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is extremely kind of you,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with a tone of
perfect indifference.

ГўВҖВңAnd what is the news?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou should not ask a stranger, a foreigner, for news.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it, but in asking for news, I mean, have you done anything for
me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHad you commissioned me?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, feigning uneasiness.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңdo not assume so much indifference. It is
said, sympathy travels rapidly, and when at TrГғВ©port, I felt the
electric shock; you have either been working for me or thinking of me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPossibly,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI have indeed thought of you, but the
magnetic wire I was guiding acted, indeed, without my knowledge.ГўВҖВқ

30277m



ГўВҖВңIndeed! Pray tell me how it happened.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWillingly. M. Danglars dined with me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it; to avoid meeting him, my mother and I left town.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut he met here M. Andrea Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour Italian prince?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot so fast; M. Andrea only calls himself count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCalls himself, do you say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, calls himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs he not a count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat can I know of him? He calls himself so. I, of course, give him
the same title, and everyone else does likewise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat a strange man you are! What next? You say M. Danglars dined
here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, with Count Cavalcanti, the marquis his father, Madame Danglars,
M. and Madame de Villefort,ГўВҖВ”charming people,ГўВҖВ”M. Debray, Maximilian
Morrel, and M. de ChГғВўteau-Renaud.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid they speak of me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot a word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the worse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so? I thought you wished them to forget you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf they did not speak of me, I am sure they thought about me, and I am
in despair.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow will that affect you, since Mademoiselle Danglars was not among
the number here who thought of you? Truly, she might have thought of
you at home.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have no fear of that; or, if she did, it was only in the same way in
which I think of her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTouching sympathy! So you hate each other?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said MorcerfГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңif Mademoiselle Danglars were disposed to take
pity on my supposed martyrdom on her account, and would dispense with
all matrimonial formalities between our two families, I am ready to
agree to the arrangement. In a word, Mademoiselle Danglars would make a
charming mistressГўВҖВ”but a wifeГўВҖВ”_diable!_ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd this,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңis your opinion of your intended
spouse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; it is rather unkind, I acknowledge, but it is true. But as this
dream cannot be realized, since Mademoiselle Danglars must become my
lawful wife, live perpetually with me, sing to me, compose verses and
music within ten paces of me, and that for my whole life, it frightens
me. One may forsake a mistress, but a wife,ГўВҖВ”good heavens! There she
must always be; and to marry Mademoiselle Danglars would be awful.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are difficult to please, viscount.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, for I often wish for what is impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo find such a wife as my father found.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo turned pale, and looked at Albert, while playing with some
magnificent pistols.

ГўВҖВңYour father was fortunate, then?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңYou know my opinion of my mother, count; look at her,ГўВҖВ”still beautiful,
witty, more charming than ever. For any other son to have stayed with
his mother for four days at TrГғВ©port, it would have been a condescension
or a martyrdom, while I return, more contented, more peacefulГўВҖВ”shall I
say more poetic!ГўВҖВ”than if I had taken Queen Mab or Titania as my
companion.ГўВҖВқ

30279m



ГўВҖВңThat is an overwhelming demonstration, and you would make everyone vow
to live a single life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSuch are my reasons for not liking to marry Mademoiselle Danglars.
Have you ever noticed how much a thing is heightened in value when we
obtain possession of it? The diamond which glittered in the window at
MarlГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs or FossinГўВҖВҷs shines with more splendor when it is our own; but
if we are compelled to acknowledge the superiority of another, and
still must retain the one that is inferior, do you not know what we
have to endure?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWorldling,ГўВҖВқ murmured the count.

ГўВҖВңThus I shall rejoice when Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie perceives I am but a
pitiful atom, with scarcely as many hundred thousand francs as she has
millions.ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo smiled. ГўВҖВңOne plan occurred to me,ГўВҖВқ continued
Albert; ГўВҖВңFranz likes all that is eccentric; I tried to make him fall in
love with Mademoiselle Danglars; but in spite of four letters, written
in the most alluring style, he invariably answered: ГўВҖВҳMy eccentricity
may be great, but it will not make me break my promise.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is what I call devoted friendship, to recommend to another one
whom you would not marry yourself.ГўВҖВқ Albert smiled.

ГўВҖВңApropos,ГўВҖВқ continued he, ГўВҖВңFranz is coming soon, but it will not
interest you; you dislike him, I think?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңmy dear viscount, how have you discovered that
I did not like M. Franz! I like everyone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you include me in the expression everyoneГўВҖВ”many thanks!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us not mistake,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI love everyone as God
commands us to love our neighbor, as Christians; but I thoroughly hate
but a few. Let us return to M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay. Did you say he was
coming?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; summoned by M. de Villefort, who is apparently as anxious to get
Mademoiselle Valentine married as M. Danglars is to see Mademoiselle
EugГғВ©nie settled. It must be a very irksome office to be the father of a
grown-up daughter; it seems to make one feverish, and to raise oneГўВҖВҷs
pulse to ninety beats a minute until the deed is done.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, unlike you, bears his misfortune patiently.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill more, he talks seriously about the matter, puts on a white tie,
and speaks of his family. He entertains a very high opinion of M. and
Madame de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich they deserve, do they not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe they do. M. de Villefort has always passed for a severe but
a just man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is, then, one,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңwhom you do not condemn like
poor Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I am not compelled to marry his daughter perhaps,ГўВҖВқ replied
Albert, laughing.

ГўВҖВңIndeed, my dear sir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou are revoltingly
foppish.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI foppish? how do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; pray take a cigar, and cease to defend yourself, and to struggle
to escape marrying Mademoiselle Danglars. Let things take their course;
perhaps you may not have to retract.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah!ГўВҖВқ said Albert, staring.

ГўВҖВңDoubtless, my dear viscount, you will not be taken by force; and
seriously, do you wish to break off your engagement?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI would give a hundred thousand francs to be able to do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen make yourself quite easy. M. Danglars would give double that sum
to attain the same end.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAm I, indeed, so happy?ГўВҖВқ said Albert, who still could not prevent an
almost imperceptible cloud passing across his brow. ГўВҖВңBut, my dear
count, has M. Danglars any reason?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! there is your proud and selfish nature. You would expose the
self-love of another with a hatchet, but you shrink if your own is
attacked with a needle.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut yet, M. Danglars appearedГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDelighted with you, was he not? Well, he is a man of bad taste, and is
still more enchanted with another. I know not whom; look and judge for
yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, I understand. But my motherГўВҖВ”no, not my mother; I mistakeГўВҖВ”my
father intends giving a ball.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA ball at this season?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSummer balls are fashionable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf they were not, the countess has only to wish it, and they would
become so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right; You know they are select affairs; those who remain in
Paris in July must be true Parisians. Will you take charge of our
invitation to Messieurs Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen will it take place?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn Saturday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. CavalcantiГўВҖВҷs father will be gone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the son will be here; will you invite young M. Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know him, viscount.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not know him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I never saw him until a few days since, and am not responsible for
him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you receive him at your house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is another thing: he was recommended to me by a good abbГғВ©, who
may be deceived. Give him a direct invitation, but do not ask me to
present him. If he were afterwards to marry Mademoiselle Danglars, you
would accuse me of intrigue, and would be challenging me,ГўВҖВ”besides, I
may not be there myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt your ball.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy should you not be there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause you have not yet invited me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I come expressly for that purpose.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are very kind, but I may be prevented.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I tell you one thing, you will be so amiable as to set aside all
impediments.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me what it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy mother begs you to come.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Comtesse de Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, starting.

ГўВҖВңAh, count,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI assure you Madame de Morcerf speaks freely
to me, and if you have not felt those sympathetic fibres of which I
spoke just now thrill within you, you must be entirely devoid of them,
for during the last four days we have spoken of no one else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have talked of me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, that is the penalty of being a living puzzle!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I am also a puzzle to your mother? I should have thought her too
reasonable to be led by imagination.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA problem, my dear count, for everyoneГўВҖВ”for my mother as well as
others; much studied, but not solved, you still remain an enigma, do
not fear. My mother is only astonished that you remain so long
unsolved. I believe, while the Countess GГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ” takes you for Lord Ruthven,
my mother imagines you to be Cagliostro or the Count Saint-Germain. The
first opportunity you have, confirm her in her opinion; it will be easy
for you, as you have the philosophy of the one and the wit of the
other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thank you for the warning,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңI shall endeavor to be
prepared for all suppositions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will, then, come on Saturday?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, since Madame de Morcerf invites me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are very kind.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill M. Danglars be there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has already been invited by my father. We shall try to persuade the
great dГўВҖВҷAguesseau,11 M. de Villefort, to come, but have not much hope
of seeing him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳNever despair of anything,ГўВҖВҷ says the proverb.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you dance, count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI dance?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you; it would not be astonishing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is very well before one is over forty. No, I do not dance, but I
like to see others do so. Does Madame de Morcerf dance?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever; you can talk to her, she so delights in your conversation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ

30283m



ГўВҖВңYes, truly; and I assure you. You are the only man of whom I have
heard her speak with interest.ГўВҖВқ Albert rose and took his hat; the count
conducted him to the door.

ГўВҖВңI have one thing to reproach myself with,ГўВҖВқ said he, stopping Albert on
the steps. ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have spoken to you indiscreetly about Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, speak to me always in the same strain about him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am glad to be reassured on that point. Apropos, when do you aspect
M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFive or six days hence at the latest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd when is he to be married?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImmediately on the arrival of M. and Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBring him to see me. Although you say I do not like him, I assure you
I shall be happy to see him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will obey your orders, my lord.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood-bye.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUntil Saturday, when I may expect you, may I not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I promised you.ГўВҖВқ The Count watched Albert, waving his hand to
him. When he had mounted his phaeton, Monte Cristo turned, and seeing
Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңWhat news?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңShe went to the Palais,ГўВҖВқ replied the steward.

ГўВҖВңDid she stay long there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn hour and a half.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid she return home?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDirectly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, my dear Bertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI now advise you to go in
quest of the little estate I spoke to you of in Normandy.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio bowed, and as his wishes were in perfect harmony with the
order he had received, he started the same evening.



 Chapter 69. The Inquiry

M. de Villefort kept the promise he had made to Madame Danglars, to
endeavor to find out how the Count of Monte Cristo had discovered the
history of the house at Auteuil. He wrote the same day for the required
information to M. de Boville, who, from having been an inspector of
prisons, was promoted to a high office in the police; and the latter
begged for two days time to ascertain exactly who would be most likely
to give him full particulars. At the end of the second day M. de
Villefort received the following note:

ГўВҖВңThe person called the Count of Monte Cristo is an intimate
acquaintance of Lord Wilmore, a rich foreigner, who is sometimes seen
in Paris and who is there at this moment; he is also known to the AbbГғВ©
Busoni, a Sicilian priest, of high repute in the East, where he has
done much good.ГўВҖВқ

M. de Villefort replied by ordering the strictest inquiries to be made
respecting these two persons; his orders were executed, and the
following evening he received these details:

ГўВҖВңThe abbГғВ©, who was in Paris only for a month, inhabited a small
two-storied house behind Saint-Sulpice; there were two rooms on each
floor and he was the only tenant. The two lower rooms consisted of a
dining-room, with a table, chairs, and side-board of walnut, and a
wainscoted parlor, without ornaments, carpet, or timepiece. It was
evident that the abbГғВ© limited himself to objects of strict necessity.
He preferred to use the sitting-room upstairs, which was more library
than parlor, and was furnished with theological books and parchments,
in which he delighted to bury himself for months at a time, according
to his valet de chambre. His valet looked at the visitors through a
sort of wicket; and if their faces were unknown to him or displeased
him, he replied that the abbГғВ© was not in Paris, an answer which
satisfied most persons, because the abbГғВ© was known to be a great
traveller. Besides, whether at home or not, whether in Paris or Cairo,
the abbГғВ© always left something to give away, which the valet
distributed through this wicket in his masterГўВҖВҷs name. The other room
near the library was a bedroom. A bed without curtains, four armchairs,
and a couch, covered with yellow Utrecht velvet, composed, with a
_prie-Dieu_, all its furniture.

ГўВҖВңLord Wilmore resided in Rue Fontaine-Saint-Georges. He was one of
those English tourists who consume a large fortune in travelling. He
hired the apartment in which he lived furnished, passed only a few
hours in the day there, and rarely slept there. One of his
peculiarities was never to speak a word of French, which he however
wrote with great facility.ГўВҖВқ

The day after this important information had been given to the kingГўВҖВҷs
attorney, a man alighted from a carriage at the corner of the Rue
FГғВ©rou, and rapping at an olive-green door, asked if the AbbГғВ© Busoni
were within.

ГўВҖВңNo, he went out early this morning,ГўВҖВқ replied the valet.

ГўВҖВңI might not always be content with that answer,ГўВҖВқ replied the visitor,
ГўВҖВңfor I come from one to whom everyone must be at home. But have the
kindness to give the AbbГғВ© BusoniГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI told you he was not at home,ГўВҖВқ repeated the valet.

ГўВҖВңThen on his return give him that card and this sealed paper. Will he
be at home at eight oГўВҖВҷclock this evening?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless, unless he is at work, which is the same as if he were out.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will come again at that time,ГўВҖВқ replied the visitor, who then
retired.

At the appointed hour the same man returned in the same carriage,
which, instead of stopping this time at the end of the Rue FГғВ©rou, drove
up to the green door. He knocked, and it opened immediately to admit
him. From the signs of respect the valet paid him, he saw that his note
had produced a good effect.

ГўВҖВңIs the abbГғВ© at home?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңYes; he is at work in his library, but he expects you, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied
the valet. The stranger ascended a rough staircase, and before a table,
illumined by a lamp whose light was concentrated by a large shade while
the rest of the apartment was in partial darkness, he perceived the
abbГғВ© in a monkГўВҖВҷs dress, with a cowl on his head such as was used by
learned men of the Middle Ages.

ГўВҖВңHave I the honor of addressing the AbbГғВ© Busoni?ГўВҖВқ asked the visitor.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңand you are the person whom M. de
Boville, formerly an inspector of prisons, sends to me from the prefect
of police?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne of the agents appointed to secure the safety of Paris?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sirГўВҖВқ replied the stranger with a slight hesitation, and blushing.

The abbГғВ© replaced the large spectacles, which covered not only his eyes
but his temples, and sitting down motioned to his visitor to do the
same. ГўВҖВңI am at your service, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, with a marked Italian
accent.

ГўВҖВңThe mission with which I am charged, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the visitor,
speaking with hesitation, ГўВҖВңis a confidential one on the part of him who
fulfils it, and him by whom he is employed.ГўВҖВқ The abbГғВ© bowed. ГўВҖВңYour
probity,ГўВҖВқ replied the stranger, ГўВҖВңis so well known to the prefect that
he wishes as a magistrate to ascertain from you some particulars
connected with the public safety, to ascertain which I am deputed to
see you. It is hoped that no ties of friendship or humane consideration
will induce you to conceal the truth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProvided, sir, the particulars you wish for do not interfere with my
scruples or my conscience. I am a priest, sir, and the secrets of
confession, for instance, must remain between me and God, and not
between me and human justice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not alarm yourself, monsieur, we will duly respect your
conscience.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment the abbГғВ© pressed down his side of the shade and so
raised it on the other, throwing a bright light on the strangerГўВҖВҷs face,
while his own remained obscured.

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, abbГғВ©,ГўВҖВқ said the envoy of the prefect of the police, ГўВҖВңbut
the light tries my eyes very much.ГўВҖВқ The abbГғВ© lowered the shade.

ГўВҖВңNow, sir, I am listeningГўВҖВ”go on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will come at once to the point. Do you know the Count of Monte
Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou mean Monsieur Zaccone, I presume?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңZaccone?ГўВҖВ”is not his name Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonte Cristo is the name of an estate, or, rather, of a rock, and not
a family name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, be it soГўВҖВ”let us not dispute about words; and since M. de Monte
Cristo and M. Zaccone are the sameГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbsolutely the same.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us speak of M. Zaccone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAgreed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI asked you if you knew him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExtremely well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe son of a rich shipbuilder in Malta.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know that is the report; but, as you are aware, the police does not
content itself with vague reports.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHowever,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©, with an affable smile, ГўВҖВңwhen that report
is in accordance with the truth, everybody must believe it, the police
as well as all the rest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you sure of what you assert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean by that question?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnderstand, sir, I do not in the least suspect your veracity; I ask if
you are certain of it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI knew his father, M. Zaccone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd when a child I often played with the son in the timber-yards.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut whence does he derive the title of count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are aware that may be bought.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn Italy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverywhere.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd his immense riches, whence does he procure them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey may not be so very great.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow much do you suppose he possesses?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom one hundred and fifty to two hundred thousand livres per annum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is reasonable,ГўВҖВқ said the visitor; ГўВҖВңI have heard he had three or
four millions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo hundred thousand per annum would make four millions of capital.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I was told he had four millions per annum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is not probable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know this Island of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, everyone who has come from Palermo, Naples, or Rome to
France by sea must know it, since he has passed close to it and must
have seen it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am told it is a delightful place?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is a rock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd why has the count bought a rock?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor the sake of being a count. In Italy one must have territorial
possessions to be a count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have, doubtless, heard the adventures of M. ZacconeГўВҖВҷs youth?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe fatherГўВҖВҷs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, the sonГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know nothing certain; at that period of his life, I lost sight of my
young comrade.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas he in the wars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think he entered the service.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what branch?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the navy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you not his confessor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir; I believe he is a Lutheran.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA Lutheran?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI say, I believe such is the case, I do not affirm it; besides,
liberty of conscience is established in France.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless, and we are not now inquiring into his creed, but his
actions; in the name of the prefect of police, I ask you what you know
of him.

ГўВҖВңHe passes for a very charitable man. Our holy father, the pope, has
made him a knight of Jesus Christ for the services he rendered to the
Christians in the East; he has five or six rings as testimonials from
Eastern monarchs of his services.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes he wear them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, but he is proud of them; he is better pleased with rewards given
to the benefactors of man than to his destroyers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is a Quaker then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly, he is a Quaker, with the exception of the peculiar dress.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas he any friends?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, everyone who knows him is his friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut has he any enemies?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne only.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is his name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLord Wilmore.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is in Paris just now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan he give me any particulars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImportant ones; he was in India with Zaccone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know his abode?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs somewhere in the ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin; but I know neither the street
nor the number.ГўВҖВқ

30289m



ГўВҖВңAre you at variance with the Englishman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI love Zaccone, and he hates him; we are consequently not friends.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think the Count of Monte Cristo had ever been in France before
he made this visit to Paris?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo that question I can answer positively; no, sir, he had not, because
he applied to me six months ago for the particulars he required, and as
I did not know when I might again come to Paris, I recommended M.
Cavalcanti to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAndrea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, Bartolomeo, his father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, sir, I have but one question more to ask, and I charge you, in
the name of honor, of humanity, and of religion, to answer me
candidly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know with what design M. de Monte Cristo purchased a house at
Auteuil?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, for he told me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo make a lunatic asylum of it, similar to that founded by the Count
of Pisani at Palermo. Do you know about that institution?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have heard of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is a magnificent charity.ГўВҖВқ Having said this, the abbГғВ© bowed to
imply he wished to pursue his studies.

The visitor either understood the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs meaning, or had no more
questions to ask; he arose, and the abbГғВ© accompanied him to the door.

ГўВҖВңYou are a great almsgiver,ГўВҖВқ said the visitor, ГўВҖВңand although you are
said to be rich, I will venture to offer you something for your poor
people; will you accept my offering?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thank you, sir; I am only jealous in one thing, and that is that the
relief I give should be entirely from my own resources.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHoweverГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy resolution, sir, is unchangeable, but you have only to search for
yourself and you will find, alas, but too many objects upon whom to
exercise your benevolence.ГўВҖВқ

The abbГғВ© once more bowed as he opened the door, the stranger bowed and
took his leave, and the carriage conveyed him straight to the house of
M. de Villefort. An hour afterwards the carriage was again ordered, and
this time it went to the Rue Fontaine-Saint-Georges, and stopped at No.
5, where Lord Wilmore lived. The stranger had written to Lord Wilmore,
requesting an interview, which the latter had fixed for ten oГўВҖВҷclock. As
the envoy of the prefect of police arrived ten minutes before ten, he
was told that Lord Wilmore, who was precision and punctuality
personified, was not yet come in, but that he would be sure to return
as the clock struck.

The visitor was introduced into the drawing-room, which was like all
other furnished drawing-rooms. A mantle-piece, with two modern SГғВЁvres
vases, a timepiece representing Cupid with his bent bow, a mirror with
an engraving on each sideГўВҖВ”one representing Homer carrying his guide,
the other, Belisarius beggingГўВҖВ”a grayish paper; red and black
tapestryГўВҖВ”such was the appearance of Lord WilmoreГўВҖВҷs drawing-room.

It was illuminated by lamps with ground-glass shades which gave only a
feeble light, as if out of consideration for the envoyГўВҖВҷs weak sight.
After ten minutesГўВҖВҷ expectation the clock struck ten; at the fifth
stroke the door opened and Lord Wilmore appeared. He was rather above
the middle height, with thin reddish whiskers, light complexion and
light hair, turning rather gray. He was dressed with all the English
peculiarity, namely, in a blue coat, with gilt buttons and high collar,
in the fashion of 1811, a white kerseymere waistcoat, and nankeen
pantaloons, three inches too short, but which were prevented by straps
from slipping up to the knee. His first remark on entering was:

ГўВҖВңYou know, sir, I do not speak French?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know you do not like to converse in our language,ГўВҖВқ replied the
envoy.

ГўВҖВңBut you may use it,ГўВҖВқ replied Lord Wilmore; ГўВҖВңI understand it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I,ГўВҖВқ replied the visitor, changing his idiom, ГўВҖВңknow enough of
English to keep up the conversation. Do not put yourself to the
slightest inconvenience.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAw?ГўВҖВқ said Lord Wilmore, with that tone which is only known to natives
of Great Britain.

The envoy presented his letter of introduction, which the latter read
with English coolness, and having finished:

ГўВҖВңI understand,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңperfectly.ГўВҖВқ

30293m



Then began the questions, which were similar to those which had been
addressed to the AbbГғВ© Busoni. But as Lord Wilmore, in the character of
the countГўВҖВҷs enemy, was less restrained in his answers, they were more
numerous; he described the youth of Monte Cristo, who he said, at ten
years of age, entered the service of one of the petty sovereigns of
India who make war on the English. It was there Wilmore had first met
him and fought against him; and in that war Zaccone had been taken
prisoner, sent to England, and consigned to the hulks, whence he had
escaped by swimming. Then began his travels, his duels, his caprices;
then the insurrection in Greece broke out, and he had served in the
Grecian ranks. While in that service he had discovered a silver mine in
the mountains of Thessaly, but he had been careful to conceal it from
everyone. After the battle of Navarino, when the Greek government was
consolidated, he asked of King Otho a mining grant for that district,
which was given him. Hence that immense fortune, which, in Lord
WilmoreГўВҖВҷs opinion, possibly amounted to one or two millions per
annum,ГўВҖВ”a precarious fortune, which might be momentarily lost by the
failure of the mine.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ asked the visitor, ГўВҖВңdo you know why he came to France?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is speculating in railways,ГўВҖВқ said Lord Wilmore, ГўВҖВңand as he is an
expert chemist and physicist, he has invented a new system of
telegraphy, which he is seeking to bring to perfection.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow much does he spend yearly?ГўВҖВқ asked the prefect.

ГўВҖВңNot more than five or six hundred thousand francs,ГўВҖВқ said Lord Wilmore;
ГўВҖВңhe is a miser.ГўВҖВқ Hatred evidently inspired the Englishman, who, knowing
no other reproach to bring on the count, accused him of avarice.

ГўВҖВңDo you know his house at Auteuil?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you know respecting it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you wish to know why he bought it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe count is a speculator, who will certainly ruin himself in
experiments. He supposes there is in the neighborhood of the house he
has bought a mineral spring equal to those at BagnГғВЁres, Luchon, and
Cauterets. He is going to turn his house into a _Badhaus_, as the
Germans term it. He has already dug up all the garden two or three
times to find the famous spring, and, being unsuccessful, he will soon
purchase all the contiguous houses. Now, as I dislike him, and hope his
railway, his electric telegraph, or his search for baths, will ruin
him, I am watching for his discomfiture, which must soon take place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was the cause of your quarrel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen he was in England he seduced the wife of one of my friends.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy do you not seek revenge?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have already fought three duels with him,ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman, ГўВҖВңthe
first with the pistol, the second with the sword, and the third with
the sabre.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what was the result of those duels?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe first time, he broke my arm; the second, he wounded me in the
breast; and the third time, made this large wound.ГўВҖВқ The Englishman
turned down his shirt-collar, and showed a scar, whose redness proved
it to be a recent one. ГўВҖВңSo that, you see, there is a deadly feud
between us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said the envoy, ГўВҖВңyou do not go about it in the right way to kill
him, if I understand you correctly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAw?ГўВҖВқ said the Englishman, ГўВҖВңI practice shooting every day, and every
other day Grisier comes to my house.ГўВҖВқ

This was all the visitor wished to ascertain, or, rather, all the
Englishman appeared to know. The agent arose, and having bowed to Lord
Wilmore, who returned his salutation with the stiff politeness of the
English, he retired. Lord Wilmore, having heard the door close after
him, returned to his bedroom, where with one hand he pulled off his
light hair, his red whiskers, his false jaw, and his wound, to resume
the black hair, dark complexion, and pearly teeth of the Count of Monte
Cristo.

It was M. de Villefort, and not the prefect, who returned to the house
of M. de Villefort. The procureur felt more at ease, although he had
learned nothing really satisfactory, and, for the first time since the
dinner-party at Auteuil, he slept soundly.



 Chapter 70. The Ball

It was in the warmest days of July, when in due course of time the
Saturday arrived upon which the ball was to take place at M. de
MorcerfГўВҖВҷs. It was ten oГўВҖВҷclock at night; the branches of the great trees
in the garden of the countГўВҖВҷs house stood out boldly against the azure
canopy of heaven, which was studded with golden stars, but where the
last fleeting clouds of a vanishing storm yet lingered.

From the apartments on the ground floor might be heard the sound of
music, with the whirl of the waltz and galop, while brilliant streams
of light shone through the openings of the Venetian blinds. At this
moment the garden was only occupied by about ten servants, who had just
received orders from their mistress to prepare the supper, the serenity
of the weather continuing to increase. Until now, it had been undecided
whether the supper should take place in the dining-room, or under a
long tent erected on the lawn, but the beautiful blue sky, studded with
stars, had settled the question in favor of the lawn.

The gardens were illuminated with colored lanterns, according to the
Italian custom, and, as is usual in countries where the luxuries of the
tableГўВҖВ”the rarest of all luxuries in their complete formГўВҖВ”are well
understood, the supper-table was loaded with wax-lights and flowers.

30297m



At the time the Countess of Morcerf returned to the rooms, after giving
her orders, many guests were arriving, more attracted by the charming
hospitality of the countess than by the distinguished position of the
count; for, owing to the good taste of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, one was sure of
finding some devices at her entertainment worthy of describing, or even
copying in case of need.

Madame Danglars, in whom the events we have related had caused deep
anxiety, had hesitated about going to Madame de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs, when during
the morning her carriage happened to meet that of Villefort. The latter
made a sign, and when the carriages had drawn close together, said:

ГўВҖВңYou are going to Madame de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs, are you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңI am too ill.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are wrong,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, significantly; ГўВҖВңit is important
that you should be seen there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think so?ГўВҖВқ asked the baroness.

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn that case I will go.ГўВҖВқ

And the two carriages passed on towards their different destinations.
Madame Danglars therefore came, not only beautiful in person, but
radiant with splendor; she entered by one door at the time when
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs appeared at the door. The countess took Albert to meet Madame
Danglars. He approached, paid her some well merited compliments on her
toilet, and offered his arm to conduct her to a seat. Albert looked
around him.

ГўВҖВңYou are looking for my daughter?ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, smiling.

ГўВҖВңI confess it,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert. ГўВҖВңCould you have been so cruel as not to
bring her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCalm yourself. She has met Mademoiselle de Villefort, and has taken
her arm; see, they are following us, both in white dresses, one with a
bouquet of camellias, the other with one of myosotis. But tell meГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what do you wish to know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill not the Count of Monte Cristo be here tonight?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSeventeen!ГўВҖВқ replied Albert.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI only mean that the count seems the rage,ГўВҖВқ replied the viscount,
smiling, ГўВҖВңand that you are the seventeenth person that has asked me the
same question. The count is in fashion; I congratulate him upon it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd have you replied to everyone as you have to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, to be sure, I have not answered you; be satisfied, we shall have
this ГўВҖВҳlionГўВҖВҷ; we are among the privileged ones.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWere you at the Opera yesterday?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe was there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed? And did the eccentric person commit any new originality?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan he be seen without doing so? Elssler was dancing in _Le Diable
boiteux_; the Greek princess was in ecstasies. After the cachucha he
placed a magnificent ring on the stem of a bouquet, and threw it to the
charming danseuse, who, in the third act, to do honor to the gift,
reappeared with it on her finger. And the Greek princess,ГўВҖВ”will she be
here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, you will be deprived of that pleasure; her position in the countГўВҖВҷs
establishment is not sufficiently understood.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait; leave me here, and go and speak to Madame de Villefort, who is
trying to attract your attention.ГўВҖВқ

Albert bowed to Madame Danglars, and advanced towards Madame de
Villefort, whose lips opened as he approached.

ГўВҖВңI wager anything,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, interrupting her, ГўВҖВңthat I know what
you were about to say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I guess rightly, will you confess it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn your honor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou were going to ask me if the Count of Monte Cristo had arrived, or
was expected.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all. It is not of him that I am now thinking. I was going to
ask you if you had received any news of Monsieur Franz.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВ”yesterday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did he tell you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat he was leaving at the same time as his letter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, now then, the count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe count will come, of that you may be satisfied.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know that he has another name besides Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I did not know it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonte Cristo is the name of an island, and he has a family name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI never heard it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, I am better informed than you; his name is Zaccone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is possible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is a Maltese.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is also possible.

ГўВҖВңThe son of a shipowner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, you should relate all this aloud, you would have the greatest
success.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe served in India, discovered a mine in Thessaly, and comes to Paris
to establish a mineral water-cure at Auteuil.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, IГўВҖВҷm sure,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңthis is indeed news! Am I allowed to
repeat it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but cautiously, tell one thing at a time, and do not say I told
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause it is a secret just discovered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe police.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen the news originatedГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt the prefectГўВҖВҷs last night. Paris, you can understand, is astonished
at the sight of such unusual splendor, and the police have made
inquiries.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, well! Nothing more is wanting than to arrest the count as a
vagabond, on the pretext of his being too rich.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, that doubtless would have happened if his credentials had not
been so favorable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor count! And is he aware of the danger he has been in?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen it will be but charitable to inform him. When he arrives, I will
not fail to do so.ГўВҖВқ

Just then, a handsome young man, with bright eyes, black hair, and
glossy moustache, respectfully bowed to Madame de Villefort. Albert
extended his hand.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңallow me to present to you M. Maximilian
Morrel, captain of Spahis, one of our best, and, above all, of our
bravest officers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have already had the pleasure of meeting this gentleman at Auteuil,
at the house of the Count of Monte Cristo,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame de
Villefort, turning away with marked coldness of manner.

This answer, and especially the tone in which it was uttered, chilled
the heart of poor Morrel. But a recompense was in store for him;
turning around, he saw near the door a beautiful fair face, whose large
blue eyes were, without any marked expression, fixed upon him, while
the bouquet of myosotis was gently raised to her lips.

The salutation was so well understood that Morrel, with the same
expression in his eyes, placed his handkerchief to his mouth; and these
two living statues, whose hearts beat so violently under their marble
aspect, separated from each other by the whole length of the room,
forgot themselves for a moment, or rather forgot the world in their
mutual contemplation. They might have remained much longer lost in one
another, without anyone noticing their abstraction. The Count of Monte
Cristo had just entered.

We have already said that there was something in the count which
attracted universal attention wherever he appeared. It was not the
coat, unexceptional in its cut, though simple and unornamented; it was
not the plain white waistcoat; it was not the trousers, that displayed
the foot so perfectly formedГўВҖВ”it was none of these things that attracted
the attention,ГўВҖВ”it was his pale complexion, his waving black hair, his
calm and serene expression, his dark and melancholy eye, his mouth,
chiselled with such marvellous delicacy, which so easily expressed such
high disdain,ГўВҖВ”these were what fixed the attention of all upon him.

Many men might have been handsomer, but certainly there could be none
whose appearance was more _significant_, if the expression may be used.
Everything about the count seemed to have its meaning, for the constant
habit of thought which he had acquired had given an ease and vigor to
the expression of his face, and even to the most trifling gesture,
scarcely to be understood. Yet the Parisian world is so strange, that
even all this might not have won attention had there not been connected
with it a mysterious story gilded by an immense fortune.

30301m



Meanwhile he advanced through the assemblage of guests under a battery
of curious glances towards Madame de Morcerf, who, standing before a
mantle-piece ornamented with flowers, had seen his entrance in a
looking-glass placed opposite the door, and was prepared to receive
him. She turned towards him with a serene smile just at the moment he
was bowing to her. No doubt she fancied the count would speak to her,
while on his side the count thought she was about to address him; but
both remained silent, and after a mere bow, Monte Cristo directed his
steps to Albert, who received him cordially.

ГўВҖВңHave you seen my mother?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert.

ГўВҖВңI have just had the pleasure,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңbut I have not seen
your father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSee, he is down there, talking politics with that little group of
great geniuses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңand so those gentlemen down there are men
of great talent. I should not have guessed it. And for what kind of
talent are they celebrated? You know there are different sorts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat tall, harsh-looking man is very learned, he discovered, in the
neighborhood of Rome, a kind of lizard with a vertebra more than
lizards usually have, and he immediately laid his discovery before the
Institute. The thing was discussed for a long time, but finally decided
in his favor. I can assure you the vertebra made a great noise in the
learned world, and the gentleman, who was only a knight of the Legion
of Honor, was made an officer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthis cross seems to me to be wisely
awarded. I suppose, had he found another additional vertebra, they
would have made him a commander.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery likely,ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңAnd who can that person be who has taken it into his head to wrap
himself up in a blue coat embroidered with green?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that coat is not his own idea; it is the RepublicГўВҖВҷs, which deputed
David12 to devise a uniform for the Academicians.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңso this gentleman is an Academician?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWithin the last week he has been made one of the learned assembly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is his especial talent?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis talent? I believe he thrusts pins through the heads of rabbits, he
makes fowls eat madder, and punches the spinal marrow out of dogs with
whalebone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd he is made a member of the Academy of Sciences for this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; of the French Academy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what has the French Academy to do with all this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was going to tell you. It seemsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat his experiments have very considerably advanced the cause of
science, doubtless?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; that his style of writing is very good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis must be very flattering to the feelings of the rabbits into whose
heads he has thrust pins, to the fowls whose bones he has dyed red, and
to the dogs whose spinal marrow he has punched out?ГўВҖВқ

Albert laughed.

ГўВҖВңAnd the other one?ГўВҖВқ demanded the count.

ГўВҖВңThat one?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, the third.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe one in the dark blue coat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is a colleague of the count, and one of the most active opponents
to the idea of providing the Chamber of Peers with a uniform. He was
very successful upon that question. He stood badly with the Liberal
papers, but his noble opposition to the wishes of the court is now
getting him into favor with the journalists. They talk of making him an
ambassador.ГўВҖВқ

30303m



ГўВҖВңAnd what are his claims to the peerage?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has composed two or three comic operas, written four or five
articles in the _SiГғВЁcle_, and voted five or six years on the
ministerial side.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBravo, viscount,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, smiling; ГўВҖВңyou are a delightful
_cicerone_. And now you will do me a favor, will you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not introduce me to any of these gentlemen; and should they wish
it, you will warn me.ГўВҖВқ Just then the count felt his arm pressed. He
turned round; it was Danglars.

ГўВҖВңAh! is it you, baron?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңWhy do you call me baron?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңyou know that I care
nothing for my title. I am not like you, viscount; you like your title,
do you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңseeing that without my title I should be
nothing; while you, sacrificing the baron, would still remain the
millionaire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich seems to me the finest title under the royalty of July,ГўВҖВқ replied
Danglars.

ГўВҖВңUnfortunately,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңoneГўВҖВҷs title to a millionaire does
not last for life, like that of baron, peer of France, or academician;
for example, the millionaires Franck & Poulmann, of Frankfurt, who have
just become bankrupts.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, becoming pale.

ГўВҖВңYes; I received the news this evening by a courier. I had about a
million in their hands, but, warned in time, I withdrew it a month
ago.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, _mon Dieu!_ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Danglars, ГўВҖВңthey have drawn on me for
200,000 francs!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you can throw out the draft; their signature is worth five per
cent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but it is too late,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңI have honored their bills.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңhere are 200,000 francs gone afterГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush, do not mention these things,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; then, approaching
Monte Cristo, he added, ГўВҖВңespecially before young M. Cavalcanti;ГўВҖВқ after
which he smiled, and turned towards the young man in question.

Albert had left the count to speak to his mother, Danglars to converse
with young Cavalcanti; Monte Cristo was for an instant alone. Meanwhile
the heat became excessive. The footmen were hastening through the rooms
with waiters loaded with ices. Monte Cristo wiped the perspiration from
his forehead, but drew back when the waiter was presented to him; he
took no refreshment. Madame de Morcerf did not lose sight of Monte
Cristo; she saw that he took nothing, and even noticed his gesture of
refusal.

ГўВҖВңAlbert,ГўВҖВқ she asked, ГўВҖВңdid you notice that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, mother?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat the count has never been willing to partake of food under the
roof of M. de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but then he breakfasted with meГўВҖВ”indeed, he made his first
appearance in the world on that occasion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut your house is not M. de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs,ГўВҖВқ murmured MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңand since
he has been here I have watched him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, he has taken nothing yet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe count is very temperate.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs smiled sadly.

ГўВҖВңApproach him,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңand when the next waiter passes, insist upon
his taking something.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut why, mother?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust to please me, Albert,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. Albert kissed his motherГўВҖВҷs
hand, and drew near the count. Another salver passed, loaded like the
preceding ones; she saw Albert attempt to persuade the count, but he
obstinately refused. Albert rejoined his mother; she was very pale.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңyou see he refuses?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but why need this annoy you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know, Albert, women are singular creatures. I should like to have
seen the count take something in my house, if only an ice. Perhaps he
cannot reconcile himself to the French style of living, and might
prefer something else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no; I have seen him eat of everything in Italy; no doubt he does
not feel inclined this evening.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd besides,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, ГўВҖВңaccustomed as he is to burning
climates, possibly he does not feel the heat as we do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not think that, for he has complained of feeling almost
suffocated, and asked why the Venetian blinds were not opened as well
as the windows.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn a word,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңit was a way of assuring me that his
abstinence was intended.ГўВҖВқ

And she left the room.

A minute afterwards the blinds were thrown open, and through the
jessamine and clematis that overhung the window one could see the
garden ornamented with lanterns, and the supper laid under the tent.
Dancers, players, talkers, all uttered an exclamation of joyГўВҖВ”everyone
inhaled with delight the breeze that floated in. At the same time
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs reappeared, paler than before, but with that imperturbable
expression of countenance which she sometimes wore. She went straight
to the group of which her husband formed the centre.

ГўВҖВңDo not detain those gentlemen here, count,ГўВҖВқ she said; ГўВҖВңthey would
prefer, I should think, to breathe in the garden rather than suffocate
here, since they are not playing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said a gallant old general, who, in 1809, had sung _Partant pour
la Syrie_,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңwe will not go alone to the garden.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңI will lead the way.ГўВҖВқ

Turning towards Monte Cristo, she added, ГўВҖВңcount, will you oblige me
with your arm?ГўВҖВқ

The count almost staggered at these simple words; then he fixed his
eyes on MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. It was only a momentary glance, but it seemed to the
countess to have lasted for a century, so much was expressed in that
one look. He offered his arm to the countess; she took it, or rather
just touched it with her little hand, and they together descended the
steps, lined with rhododendrons and camellias. Behind them, by another
outlet, a group of about twenty persons rushed into the garden with
loud exclamations of delight.



 Chapter 71. Bread and Salt

Madame de Morcerf entered an archway of trees with her companion. It
led through a grove of lindens to a conservatory.

ГўВҖВңIt was too warm in the room, was it not, count?ГўВҖВқ she asked.

ГўВҖВңYes, madame; and it was an excellent idea of yours to open the doors
and the blinds.ГўВҖВқ As he ceased speaking, the count felt the hand of
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs tremble. ГўВҖВңBut you,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңwith that light dress, and
without anything to cover you but that gauze scarf, perhaps you feel
cold?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know where I am leading you?ГўВҖВқ said the countess, without
replying to the question.

ГўВҖВңNo, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut you see I make no resistance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are going to the greenhouse that you see at the other end of the
grove.ГўВҖВқ

The count looked at MercГғВ©dГғВЁs as if to interrogate her, but she
continued to walk on in silence, and he refrained from speaking. They
reached the building, ornamented with magnificent fruits, which ripen
at the beginning of July in the artificial temperature which takes the
place of the sun, so frequently absent in our climate. The countess
left the arm of Monte Cristo, and gathered a bunch of Muscatel grapes.

ГўВҖВңSee, count,ГўВҖВқ she said, with a smile so sad in its expression that one
could almost detect the tears on her eyelidsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңsee, our French grapes
are not to be compared, I know, with yours of Sicily and Cyprus, but
you will make allowance for our northern sun.ГўВҖВқ The count bowed, but
stepped back.

ГўВҖВңDo you refuse?ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, in a tremulous voice.

ГўВҖВңPray excuse me, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңbut I never eat
Muscatel grapes.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs let them fall, and sighed. A magnificent peach was hanging
against an adjoining wall, ripened by the same artificial heat.
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs drew near, and plucked the fruit.

ГўВҖВңTake this peach, then,ГўВҖВқ she said. The count again refused. ГўВҖВңWhat,
again?ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, in so plaintive an accent that it seemed to
stifle a sob; ГўВҖВңreally, you pain me.ГўВҖВқ

A long silence followed; the peach, like the grapes, fell to the
ground.

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ added MercГғВ©dГғВЁs with a supplicating glance, ГўВҖВңthere is a
beautiful Arabian custom, which makes eternal friends of those who have
together eaten bread and salt under the same roof.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңbut we are in France, and not
in Arabia, and in France eternal friendships are as rare as the custom
of dividing bread and salt with one another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said the countess, breathlessly, with her eyes fixed on Monte
Cristo, whose arm she convulsively pressed with both hands, ГўВҖВңwe are
friends, are we not?ГўВҖВқ

The count became pale as death, the blood rushed to his heart, and then
again rising, dyed his cheeks with crimson; his eyes swam like those of
a man suddenly dazzled.

ГўВҖВңCertainly, we are friends,ГўВҖВқ he replied; ГўВҖВңwhy should we not be?ГўВҖВқ

The answer was so little like the one MercГғВ©dГғВЁs desired, that she turned
away to give vent to a sigh, which sounded more like a groan. ГўВҖВңThank
you,ГўВҖВқ she said. And they walked on again. They went the whole length of
the garden without uttering a word.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ suddenly exclaimed the countess, after their walk had continued
ten minutes in silence, ГўВҖВңis it true that you have seen so much,
travelled so far, and suffered so deeply?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have suffered deeply, madame,ГўВҖВқ answered Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңBut now you are happy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңsince no one hears me complain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd your present happiness, has it softened your heart?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy present happiness equals my past misery,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңAre you not married?ГўВҖВқ asked the countess.

ГўВҖВңI, married?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Monte Cristo, shuddering; ГўВҖВңwho could have told
you so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo one told me you were, but you have frequently been seen at the
Opera with a young and lovely woman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe is a slave whom I bought at Constantinople, madame, the daughter
of a prince. I have adopted her as my daughter, having no one else to
love in the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou live alone, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have no sisterГўВҖВ”no sonГўВҖВ”no father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have no one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow can you exist thus without anyone to attach you to life?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not my fault, madame. At Malta, I loved a young girl, was on the
point of marrying her, when war came and carried me away. I thought she
loved me well enough to wait for me, and even to remain faithful to my
memory. When I returned she was married. This is the history of most
men who have passed twenty years of age. Perhaps my heart was weaker
than the hearts of most men, and I suffered more than they would have
done in my place; that is all.ГўВҖВқ

The countess stopped for a moment, as if gasping for breath. ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ she
said, ГўВҖВңand you have still preserved this love in your heartГўВҖВ”one can
only love onceГўВҖВ”and did you ever see her again?ГўВҖВқ

30309m



ГўВҖВңNever.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI never returned to the country where she lived.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Malta?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; Malta.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe is, then, now at Malta?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd have you forgiven her for all she has made you suffer?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHer,ГўВҖВ”yes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut only her; do you then still hate those who separated you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hate them? Not at all; why should I?ГўВҖВқ The countess placed herself
before Monte Cristo, still holding in her hand a portion of the
perfumed grapes.

ГўВҖВңTake some,ГўВҖВқ she said.

ГўВҖВңMadame, I never eat Muscatel grapes,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, as if the
subject had not been mentioned before. The countess dashed the grapes
into the nearest thicket, with a gesture of despair.

ГўВҖВңInflexible man!ГўВҖВқ she murmured. Monte Cristo remained as unmoved as if
the reproach had not been addressed to him.

Albert at this moment ran in. ГўВҖВңOh, mother,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңsuch a
misfortune has happened!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? What has happened?ГўВҖВқ asked the countess, as though awakening from
a sleep to the realities of life; ГўВҖВңdid you say a misfortune? Indeed, I
should expect misfortunes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Villefort is here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe comes to fetch his wife and daughter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran is just arrived in Paris, bringing the
news of M. de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs death, which took place on the first stage
after he left Marseilles. Madame de Villefort, who was in very good
spirits, would neither believe nor think of the misfortune, but
Mademoiselle Valentine, at the first words, guessed the whole truth,
notwithstanding all the precautions of her father; the blow struck her
like a thunderbolt, and she fell senseless.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how was M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran related to Mademoiselle de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ
said the count.

ГўВҖВңHe was her grandfather on the motherГўВҖВҷs side. He was coming here to
hasten her marriage with Franz.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo Franz must wait. Why was not M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran also grandfather to
Mademoiselle Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlbert, Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Morcerf, in a tone of mild reproof,
ГўВҖВңwhat are you saying? Ah, count, he esteems you so highly, tell him
that he has spoken amiss.ГўВҖВқ

And she took two or three steps forward. Monte Cristo watched her with
an air so thoughtful, and so full of affectionate admiration, that she
turned back and grasped his hand; at the same time she seized that of
her son, and joined them together.

ГўВҖВңWe are friends; are we not?ГўВҖВқ she asked.

ГўВҖВңOh, madame, I do not presume to call myself your friend, but at all
times I am your most respectful servant.ГўВҖВқ The countess left with an
indescribable pang in her heart, and before she had taken ten steps the
count saw her raise her handkerchief to her eyes.

ГўВҖВңDo not my mother and you agree?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert, astonished.

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңdid you not hear her declare
that we were friends?ГўВҖВқ

They re-entered the drawing-room, which Valentine and Madame de
Villefort had just quitted. It is perhaps needless to add that Morrel
departed almost at the same time.



 Chapter 72. Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran

A gloomy scene had indeed just passed at the house of M. de Villefort.
After the ladies had departed for the ball, whither all the entreaties
of Madame de Villefort had failed in persuading him to accompany them,
the procureur had shut himself up in his study, according to his
custom, with a heap of papers calculated to alarm anyone else, but
which generally scarcely satisfied his inordinate desires.

But this time the papers were a mere matter of form. Villefort had
secluded himself, not to study, but to reflect; and with the door
locked and orders given that he should not be disturbed excepting for
important business, he sat down in his armchair and began to ponder
over the events, the remembrance of which had during the last eight
days filled his mind with so many gloomy thoughts and bitter
recollections.

Then, instead of plunging into the mass of documents piled before him,
he opened the drawer of his desk, touched a spring, and drew out a
parcel of cherished memoranda, amongst which he had carefully arranged,
in characters only known to himself, the names of all those who, either
in his political career, in money matters, at the bar, or in his
mysterious love affairs, had become his enemies.

Their number was formidable, now that he had begun to fear, and yet
these names, powerful though they were, had often caused him to smile
with the same kind of satisfaction experienced by a traveller who from
the summit of a mountain beholds at his feet the craggy eminences, the
almost impassable paths, and the fearful chasms, through which he has
so perilously climbed. When he had run over all these names in his
memory, again read and studied them, commenting meanwhile upon his
lists, he shook his head.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ he murmured, ГўВҖВңnone of my enemies would have waited so patiently
and laboriously for so long a space of time, that they might now come
and crush me with this secret. Sometimes, as Hamlet says:

ГўВҖВҳFoul deeds will rise,

Though all the earth oГўВҖВҷerwhelm them, to menГўВҖВҷs eyes;ГўВҖВҷ


but, like a phosphoric light, they rise but to mislead. The story has
been told by the Corsican to some priest, who in his turn has repeated
it. M. de Monte Cristo may have heard it, and to enlighten himselfГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңBut why should he wish to enlighten himself upon the subject?ГўВҖВқ asked
Villefort, after a momentГўВҖВҷs reflection, ГўВҖВңwhat interest can this M. de
Monte Cristo or M. Zaccone,ГўВҖВ”son of a shipowner of Malta, discoverer of
a mine in Thessaly, now visiting Paris for the first time,ГўВҖВ”what
interest, I say, can he take in discovering a gloomy, mysterious, and
useless fact like this? However, among all the incoherent details given
to me by the AbbГғВ© Busoni and by Lord Wilmore, by that friend and that
enemy, one thing appears certain and clear in my opinionГўВҖВ”that in no
period, in no case, in no circumstance, could there have been any
contact between him and me.ГўВҖВқ

But Villefort uttered words which even he himself did not believe. He
dreaded not so much the revelation, for he could reply to or deny its
truth;ГўВҖВ”he cared little for that _mene, mene, tekel upharsin_, which
appeared suddenly in letters of blood upon the wall;ГўВҖВ”but what he was
really anxious for was to discover whose hand had traced them. While he
was endeavoring to calm his fears,ГўВҖВ”and instead of dwelling upon the
political future that had so often been the subject of his ambitious
dreams, was imagining a future limited to the enjoyments of home, in
fear of awakening the enemy that had so long slept,ГўВҖВ”the noise of a
carriage sounded in the yard, then he heard the steps of an aged person
ascending the stairs, followed by tears and lamentations, such as
servants always give vent to when they wish to appear interested in
their masterГўВҖВҷs grief.

He drew back the bolt of his door, and almost directly an old lady
entered, unannounced, carrying her shawl on her arm, and her bonnet in
her hand. The white hair was thrown back from her yellow forehead, and
her eyes, already sunken by the furrows of age, now almost disappeared
beneath the eyelids swollen with grief.

ГўВҖВңOh, sir,ГўВҖВқ she said; ГўВҖВңoh, sir, what a misfortune! I shall die of it;
oh, yes, I shall certainly die of it!ГўВҖВқ

And then, falling upon the chair nearest the door, she burst into a
paroxysm of sobs. The servants, standing in the doorway, not daring to
approach nearer, were looking at NoirtierГўВҖВҷs old servant, who had heard
the noise from his masterГўВҖВҷs room, and run there also, remaining behind
the others. Villefort rose, and ran towards his mother-in-law, for it
was she.

ГўВҖВңWhy, what can have happened?ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңwhat has thus disturbed
you? Is M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran with you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Saint-MГғВ©ran is dead,ГўВҖВқ answered the old marchioness, without
preface and without expression; she appeared to be stupefied. Villefort
drew back, and clasping his hands together, exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңDead!ГўВҖВ”so suddenly?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA week ago,ГўВҖВқ continued Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, ГўВҖВңwe went out together in
the carriage after dinner. M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran had been unwell for some
days; still, the idea of seeing our dear Valentine again inspired him
with courage, and notwithstanding his illness he would leave. At six
leagues from Marseilles, after having eaten some of the lozenges he is
accustomed to take, he fell into such a deep sleep, that it appeared to
me unnatural; still I hesitated to wake him, although I fancied that
his face was flushed, and that the veins of his temples throbbed more
violently than usual. However, as it became dark, and I could no longer
see, I fell asleep; I was soon aroused by a piercing shriek, as from a
person suffering in his dreams, and he suddenly threw his head back
violently. I called the valet, I stopped the postilion, I spoke to M.
de Saint-MГғВ©ran, I applied my smelling-salts; but all was over, and I
arrived at Aix by the side of a corpse.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort stood with his mouth half open, quite stupefied.

ГўВҖВңOf course you sent for a doctor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImmediately; but, as I have told you, it was too late.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but then he could tell of what complaint the poor marquis had
died.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, sir, he told me; it appears to have been an apoplectic
stroke.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did you do then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Saint-MГғВ©ran had always expressed a desire, in case his death
happened during his absence from Paris, that his body might be brought
to the family vault. I had him put into a leaden coffin, and I am
preceding him by a few days.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh! my poor mother!ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңto have such duties to perform
at your age after such a blow!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGod has supported me through all; and then, my dear marquis, he would
certainly have done everything for me that I performed for him. It is
true that since I left him, I seem to have lost my senses. I cannot
cry; at my age they say that we have no more tears,ГўВҖВ”still I think that
when one is in trouble one should have the power of weeping. Where is
Valentine, sir? It is on her account I am here; I wish to see
Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

30315m



Villefort thought it would be terrible to reply that Valentine was at a
ball; so he only said that she had gone out with her step-mother, and
that she should be fetched. ГўВҖВңThis instant, sirГўВҖВ”this instant, I beseech
you!ГўВҖВқ said the old lady. Villefort placed the arm of Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran within his own, and conducted her to his apartment.

ГўВҖВңRest yourself, mother,ГўВҖВқ he said.

The marchioness raised her head at this word, and beholding the man who
so forcibly reminded her of her deeply-regretted child, who still lived
for her in Valentine, she felt touched at the name of mother, and
bursting into tears, she fell on her knees before an armchair, where
she buried her venerable head. Villefort left her to the care of the
women, while old Barrois ran, half-scared, to his master; for nothing
frightens old people so much as when death relaxes its vigilance over
them for a moment in order to strike some other old person. Then, while
Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran remained on her knees, praying fervently,
Villefort sent for a cab, and went himself to fetch his wife and
daughter from Madame de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs. He was so pale when he appeared at
the door of the ball-room, that Valentine ran to him, saying:

ГўВҖВңOh, father, some misfortune has happened!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour grandmamma has just arrived, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said M. de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңAnd grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ inquired the young girl, trembling with apprehension.
M. de Villefort only replied by offering his arm to his daughter. It
was just in time, for ValentineГўВҖВҷs head swam, and she staggered; Madame
de Villefort instantly hastened to her assistance, and aided her
husband in dragging her to the carriage, saying:

ГўВҖВңWhat a singular event! Who could have thought it? Ah, yes, it is
indeed strange!ГўВҖВқ

And the wretched family departed, leaving a cloud of sadness hanging
over the rest of the evening. At the foot of the stairs, Valentine
found Barrois awaiting her.

ГўВҖВңM. Noirtier wishes to see you tonight, he said, in an undertone.

ГўВҖВңTell him I will come when I leave my dear grandmamma,ГўВҖВқ she replied,
feeling, with true delicacy, that the person to whom she could be of
the most service just then was Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran.

Valentine found her grandmother in bed; silent caresses, heartwrung
sobs, broken sighs, burning tears, were all that passed in this sad
interview, while Madame de Villefort, leaning on her husbandГўВҖВҷs arm,
maintained all outward forms of respect, at least towards the poor
widow. She soon whispered to her husband:

ГўВҖВңI think it would be better for me to retire, with your permission, for
the sight of me appears still to afflict your mother-in-law.ГўВҖВқ Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran heard her.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ she said softly to Valentine, ГўВҖВңlet her leave; but do you
stay.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort left, and Valentine remained alone beside the bed,
for the procureur, overcome with astonishment at the unexpected death,
had followed his wife. Meanwhile, Barrois had returned for the first
time to old Noirtier, who having heard the noise in the house, had, as
we have said, sent his old servant to inquire the cause; on his return,
his quick intelligent eye interrogated the messenger.

ГўВҖВңAlas, sir,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Barrois, ГўВҖВңa great misfortune has happened.
Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran has arrived, and her husband is dead!ГўВҖВқ

M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran and Noirtier had never been on strict terms of
friendship; still, the death of one old man always considerably affects
another. Noirtier let his head fall upon his chest, apparently
overwhelmed and thoughtful; then he closed one eye, in token of
inquiry.

Barrois asked, ГўВҖВңMademoiselle Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier nodded his head.

ГўВҖВңShe is at the ball, as you know, since she came to say good-bye to you
in full dress.ГўВҖВқ Noirtier again closed his left eye.

ГўВҖВңDo you wish to see her?ГўВҖВқ Noirtier again made an affirmative sign.

ГўВҖВңWell, they have gone to fetch her, no doubt, from Madame de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs;
I will await her return, and beg her to come up here. Is that what you
wish for?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the invalid.

Barrois, therefore, as we have seen, watched for Valentine, and
informed her of her grandfatherГўВҖВҷs wish. Consequently, Valentine came up
to Noirtier, on leaving Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, who in the midst of her
grief had at last yielded to fatigue and fallen into a feverish sleep.
Within reach of her hand they placed a small table upon which stood a
bottle of orangeade, her usual beverage, and a glass. Then, as we have
said, the young girl left the bedside to see M. Noirtier.

Valentine kissed the old man, who looked at her with such tenderness
that her eyes again filled with tears, whose sources he thought must be
exhausted. The old gentleman continued to dwell upon her with the same
expression.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңyou mean that I have yet a kind
grandfather left, do you not.ГўВҖВқ The old man intimated that such was his
meaning. ГўВҖВңAh, yes, happily I have,ГўВҖВқ replied Valentine. ГўВҖВңWithout that,
what would become of me?ГўВҖВқ

It was one oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning. Barrois, who wished to go to bed
himself, observed that after such sad events everyone stood in need of
rest. Noirtier would not say that the only rest he needed was to see
his child, but wished her good-night, for grief and fatigue had made
her appear quite ill.

The next morning she found her grandmother in bed; the fever had not
abated, on the contrary her eyes glistened and she appeared to be
suffering from violent nervous irritability.

ГўВҖВңOh, dear grandmamma, are you worse?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Valentine, perceiving
all these signs of agitation.

ГўВҖВңNo, my child, no,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran; ГўВҖВңbut I was impatiently
waiting for your arrival, that I might send for your father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father?ГўВҖВқ inquired Valentine, uneasily.

ГўВҖВңYes, I wish to speak to him.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine durst not oppose her grandmotherГўВҖВҷs wish, the cause of which
she did not know, and an instant afterwards Villefort entered.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, without using any circumlocution,
and as if fearing she had no time to lose, ГўВҖВңyou wrote to me concerning
the marriage of this child?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, ГўВҖВңit is not only projected but
arranged.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour intended son-in-law is named M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, madame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs he not the son of General dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay who was on our side, and who was
assassinated some days before the usurper returned from the Island of
Elba?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe same.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes he not dislike the idea of marrying the granddaughter of a
Jacobin?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOur civil dissensions are now happily extinguished, mother,ГўВҖВқ said
Villefort; ГўВҖВңM. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay was quite a child when his father died, he
knows very little of M. Noirtier, and will meet him, if not with
pleasure, at least with indifference.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it a suitable match?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn every respect.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the young man?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs regarded with universal esteem.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou approve of him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is one of the most well-bred young men I know.ГўВҖВқ

During the whole of this conversation Valentine had remained silent.

ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, after a few minutesГўВҖВҷ
reflection, ГўВҖВңI must hasten the marriage, for I have but a short time to
live.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou, madame?ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңYou, dear mamma?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed M. de Villefort and
Valentine at the same time.

ГўВҖВңI know what I am saying,ГўВҖВқ continued the marchioness; ГўВҖВңI must hurry
you, so that, as she has no mother, she may at least have a grandmother
to bless her marriage. I am all that is left to her belonging to my
poor RenГғВ©e, whom you have so soon forgotten, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңyou forget that I was obliged to give a
mother to my child.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA stepmother is never a mother, sir. But this is not to the
purpose,ГўВҖВ”our business concerns Valentine, let us leave the dead in
peace.ГўВҖВқ

All this was said with such exceeding rapidity, that there was
something in the conversation that seemed like the beginning of
delirium.

ГўВҖВңIt shall be as you wish, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңmore especially
since your wishes coincide with mine, and as soon as M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay
arrives in ParisГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

30319m



ГўВҖВңMy dear grandmother,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Valentine, ГўВҖВңconsider decorumГўВҖВ”the
recent death. You would not have me marry under such sad auspices?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy child,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the old lady sharply, ГўВҖВңlet us hear none of the
conventional objections that deter weak minds from preparing for the
future. I also was married at the death-bed of my mother, and certainly
I have not been less happy on that account.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill that idea of death, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңStill?ГўВҖВ”Always! I tell you I am going to dieГўВҖВ”do you understand? Well,
before dying, I wish to see my son-in-law. I wish to tell him to make
my child happy; I wish to read in his eyes whether he intends to obey
me;ГўВҖВ”in fact, I will know himГўВҖВ”I will!ГўВҖВқ continued the old lady, with a
fearful expression, ГўВҖВңthat I may rise from the depths of my grave to
find him, if he should not fulfil his duty!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңyou must lay aside these exalted ideas,
which almost assume the appearance of madness. The dead, once buried in
their graves, rise no more.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I tell you, sir, that you are mistaken. This night I have had a
fearful sleep. It seemed as though my soul were already hovering over
my body, my eyes, which I tried to open, closed against my will, and
what will appear impossible above all to you, sir, I saw, with my eyes
shut, in the spot where you are now standing, issuing from that corner
where there is a door leading into Madame VillefortГўВҖВҷs dressing-roomГўВҖВ”I
saw, I tell you, silently enter, a white figure.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine screamed.

ГўВҖВңIt was the fever that disturbed you, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

30321m



ГўВҖВңDoubt, if you please, but I am sure of what I say. I saw a white
figure, and as if to prevent my discrediting the testimony of only one
of my senses, I heard my glass removedГўВҖВ”the same which is there now on
the table.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, dear mother, it was a dream.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo little was it a dream, that I stretched my hand towards the bell;
but when I did so, the shade disappeared; my maid then entered with a
light.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut she saw no one?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPhantoms are visible to those only who ought to see them. It was the
soul of my husband!ГўВҖВ”Well, if my husbandГўВҖВҷs soul can come to me, why
should not my soul reappear to guard my granddaughter? the tie is even
more direct, it seems to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, deeply affected, in spite of himself, ГўВҖВңdo
not yield to those gloomy thoughts; you will long live with us, happy,
loved, and honored, and we will make you forgetГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever, never, never,ГўВҖВқ said the marchioness. ГўВҖВңWhen does M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay
return?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe expect him every moment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is well. As soon as he arrives inform me. We must be expeditious.
And then I also wish to see a notary, that I may be assured that all
our property returns to Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, grandmamma,ГўВҖВқ murmured Valentine, pressing her lips on the burning
brow, ГўВҖВңdo you wish to kill me? Oh, how feverish you are; we must not
send for a notary, but for a doctor!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA doctor?ГўВҖВқ said she, shrugging her shoulders, ГўВҖВңI am not ill; I am
thirstyГўВҖВ”that is all.ГўВҖВқ

30323m



ГўВҖВңWhat are you drinking, dear grandmamma?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe same as usual, my dear, my glass is there on the tableГўВҖВ”give it to
me, Valentine.ГўВҖВқ Valentine poured the orangeade into a glass and gave it
to her grandmother with a certain degree of dread, for it was the same
glass she fancied that had been touched by the spectre.

The marchioness drained the glass at a single draught, and then turned
on her pillow, repeating,

ГўВҖВңThe notary, the notary!ГўВҖВқ

M. de Villefort left the room, and Valentine seated herself at the
bedside of her grandmother. The poor child appeared herself to require
the doctor she had recommended to her aged relative. A bright spot
burned in either cheek, her respiration was short and difficult, and
her pulse beat with feverish excitement. She was thinking of the
despair of Maximilian, when he should be informed that Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran, instead of being an ally, was unconsciously acting as his
enemy.

More than once she thought of revealing all to her grandmother, and she
would not have hesitated a moment, if Maximilian Morrel had been named
Albert de Morcerf or Raoul de ChГғВўteau-Renaud; but Morrel was of
plebeian extraction, and Valentine knew how the haughty Marquise de
Saint-MГғВ©ran despised all who were not noble. Her secret had each time
been repressed when she was about to reveal it, by the sad conviction
that it would be useless to do so; for, were it once discovered by her
father and mother, all would be lost.

Two hours passed thus; Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran was in a feverish sleep,
and the notary had arrived. Though his coming was announced in a very
low tone, Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran arose from her pillow.

ГўВҖВңThe notary!ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, ГўВҖВңlet him come in.ГўВҖВқ

The notary, who was at the door, immediately entered. ГўВҖВңGo, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ
said Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, ГўВҖВңand leave me with this gentleman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, grandmammaГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLeave meГўВҖВ”go!ГўВҖВқ

The young girl kissed her grandmother, and left with her handkerchief
to her eyes; at the door she found the valet de chambre, who told her
that the doctor was waiting in the dining-room. Valentine instantly ran
down. The doctor was a friend of the family, and at the same time one
of the cleverest men of the day, and very fond of Valentine, whose
birth he had witnessed. He had himself a daughter about her age, but
whose life was one continued source of anxiety and fear to him from her
mother having been consumptive.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңwe have been waiting for you with such
impatience, dear M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny. But, first of all, how are Madeleine and
Antoinette?ГўВҖВқ

Madeleine was the daughter of M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, and Antoinette his niece.
M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny smiled sadly.

ГўВҖВңAntoinette is very well,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңand Madeleine tolerably so. But
you sent for me, my dear child. It is not your father or Madame de
Villefort who is ill. As for you, although we doctors cannot divest our
patients of nerves, I fancy you have no further need of me than to
recommend you not to allow your imagination to take too wide a field.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine colored. M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny carried the science of divination
almost to a miraculous extent, for he was one of the physicians who
always work upon the body through the mind.

30325m



ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ she replied, ГўВҖВңit is for my poor grandmother. You know the
calamity that has happened to us, do you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know nothing.ГўВҖВқ said M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, restraining her tears, ГўВҖВңmy grandfather is
dead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Saint-MГғВ©ran?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSuddenly?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom an apoplectic stroke.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn apoplectic stroke?ГўВҖВқ repeated the doctor.

ГўВҖВңYes, and my poor grandmother fancies that her husband, whom she never
left, has called her, and that she must go and join him. Oh, M.
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, I beseech you, do something for her!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere is she?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn her room with the notary.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd M. Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust as he was, his mind perfectly clear, but the same incapability of
moving or speaking.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the same love for youГўВҖВ”eh, my dear child?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңhe was very fond of me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho does not love you?ГўВҖВқ Valentine smiled sadly. ГўВҖВңWhat are your
grandmotherГўВҖВҷs symptoms?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn extreme nervous excitement and a strangely agitated sleep; she
fancied this morning in her sleep that her soul was hovering above her
body, which she at the same time watched. It must have been delirium;
she fancies, too, that she saw a phantom enter her chamber and even
heard the noise it made on touching her glass.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is singular,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor; ГўВҖВңI was not aware that Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran was subject to such hallucinations.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is the first time I ever saw her in this condition,ГўВҖВқ said
Valentine; ГўВҖВңand this morning she frightened me so that I thought her
mad; and my father, who you know is a strong-minded man, himself
appeared deeply impressed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe will go and see,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor; ГўВҖВңwhat you tell me seems very
strange.ГўВҖВқ The notary here descended, and Valentine was informed that
her grandmother was alone.

ГўВҖВңGo upstairs,ГўВҖВқ she said to the doctor.

ГўВҖВңAnd you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I dare notГўВҖВ”she forbade my sending for you; and, as you say, I am
myself agitated, feverish and out of sorts. I will go and take a turn
in the garden to recover myself.ГўВҖВқ

The doctor pressed ValentineГўВҖВҷs hand, and while he visited her
grandmother, she descended the steps. We need not say which portion of
the garden was her favorite walk. After remaining for a short time in
the parterre surrounding the house, and gathering a rose to place in
her waist or hair, she turned into the dark avenue which led to the
bench; then from the bench she went to the gate. As usual, Valentine
strolled for a short time among her flowers, but without gathering
them. The mourning in her heart forbade her assuming this simple
ornament, though she had not yet had time to put on the outward
semblance of woe.

30327m



She then turned towards the avenue. As she advanced she fancied she
heard a voice speaking her name. She stopped astonished, then the voice
reached her ear more distinctly, and she recognized it to be that of
Maximilian.



 Chapter 73. The Promise

It was indeed Maximilian Morrel, who had passed a wretched existence
since the previous day. With the instinct peculiar to lovers he had
anticipated after the return of Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran and the death of
the marquis, that something would occur at M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs in
connection with his attachment for Valentine. His presentiments were
realized, as we shall see, and his uneasy forebodings had goaded him
pale and trembling to the gate under the chestnut-trees.

Valentine was ignorant of the cause of this sorrow and anxiety, and as
it was not his accustomed hour for visiting her, she had gone to the
spot simply by accident or perhaps through sympathy. Morrel called her,
and she ran to the gate.

ГўВҖВңYou here at this hour?ГўВҖВқ said she.

ГўВҖВңYes, my poor girl,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel; ГўВҖВңI come to bring and to hear bad
tidings.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is, indeed, a house of mourning,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңspeak,
Maximilian, although the cup of sorrow seems already full.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDear Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, endeavoring to conceal his own emotion,
ГўВҖВңlisten, I entreat you; what I am about to say is very serious. When
are you to be married?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will tell you all,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңfrom you I have nothing to
conceal. This morning the subject was introduced, and my dear
grandmother, on whom I depended as my only support, not only declared
herself favorable to it, but is so anxious for it, that they only await
the arrival of M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, and the following day the contract will be
signed.ГўВҖВқ

A deep sigh escaped the young man, who gazed long and mournfully at her
he loved.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ replied he, ГўВҖВңit is dreadful thus to hear my condemnation from
your own lips. The sentence is passed, and, in a few hours, will be
executed; it must be so, and I will not endeavor to prevent it. But,
since you say nothing remains but for M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay to arrive that the
contract may be signed, and the following day you will be his, tomorrow
you will be engaged to M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, for he came this morning to Paris.ГўВҖВқ
Valentine uttered a cry.

ГўВҖВңI was at the house of Monte Cristo an hour since,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңwe
were speaking, he of the sorrow your family had experienced, and I of
your grief, when a carriage rolled into the courtyard. Never, till
then, had I placed any confidence in presentiments, but now I cannot
help believing them, Valentine. At the sound of that carriage I
shuddered; soon I heard steps on the staircase, which terrified me as
much as the footsteps of the commander did Don Juan. The door at last
opened; Albert de Morcerf entered first, and I began to hope my fears
were vain, when, after him, another young man advanced, and the count
exclaimed: ГўВҖВҳAh, here is the Baron Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay!ГўВҖВҷ I summoned all my
strength and courage to my support. Perhaps I turned pale and trembled,
but certainly I smiled; and five minutes after I left, without having
heard one word that had passed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor Maximilian!ГўВҖВқ murmured Valentine.

ГўВҖВңValentine, the time has arrived when you must answer me. And remember
my life depends on your answer. What do you intend doing?ГўВҖВқ Valentine
held down her head; she was overwhelmed.

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңit is not the first time you have contemplated
our present position, which is a serious and urgent one; I do not think
it is a moment to give way to useless sorrow; leave that for those who
like to suffer at their leisure and indulge their grief in secret.
There are such in the world, and God will doubtless reward them in
heaven for their resignation on earth, but those who mean to contend
must not lose one precious moment, but must return immediately the blow
which fortune strikes. Do you intend to struggle against our
ill-fortune? Tell me, Valentine for it is that I came to know.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine trembled, and looked at him with amazement. The idea of
resisting her father, her grandmother, and all the family, had never
occurred to her.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you say, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine. ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean by a
struggle? Oh, it would be a sacrilege. What? I resist my fatherГўВҖВҷs
order, and my dying grandmotherГўВҖВҷs wish? Impossible!ГўВҖВқ

Morrel started.

ГўВҖВңYou are too noble not to understand me, and you understand me so well
that you already yield, dear Maximilian. No, no; I shall need all my
strength to struggle with myself and support my grief in secret, as you
say. But to grieve my fatherГўВҖВ”to disturb my grandmotherГўВҖВҷs last
momentsГўВҖВ”never!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, calmly.

ГўВҖВңIn what a tone you speak!ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine.

ГўВҖВңI speak as one who admires you, mademoiselle.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine; ГўВҖВңmademoiselle! Oh, selfish man! he
sees me in despair, and pretends he cannot understand me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou mistakeГўВҖВ”I understand you perfectly. You will not oppose M.
Villefort, you will not displease the marchioness, and tomorrow you
will sign the contract which will bind you to your husband.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, _mon Dieu!_ tell me, how can I do otherwise?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not appeal to me, mademoiselle; I shall be a bad judge in such a
case; my selfishness will blind me,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel, whose low voice
and clenched hands announced his growing desperation.

ГўВҖВңWhat would you have proposed, Maximilian, had you found me willing to
accede?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not for me to say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are wrong; you must advise me what to do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you seriously ask my advice, Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, dear Maximilian, for if it is good, I will follow it; you
know my devotion to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel pushing aside a loose plank, ГўВҖВңgive me your
hand in token of forgiveness of my anger; my senses are confused, and
during the last hour the most extravagant thoughts have passed through
my brain. Oh, if you refuse my adviceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you advise?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, raising her eyes to heaven and
sighing.

ГўВҖВңI am free,ГўВҖВқ replied Maximilian, ГўВҖВңand rich enough to support you. I
swear to make you my lawful wife before my lips even shall have
approached your forehead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou make me tremble!ГўВҖВқ said the young girl.

ГўВҖВңFollow me,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңI will take you to my sister, who is worthy
also to be yours. We will embark for Algiers, for England, for America,
or, if you prefer it, retire to the country and only return to Paris
when our friends have reconciled your family.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine shook her head.

ГўВҖВңI feared it, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңit is the counsel of a madman,
and I should be more mad than you, did I not stop you at once with the
word ГўВҖВҳImpossible, Morrel, impossible!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will then submit to what fate decrees for you without even
attempting to contend with it?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel sorrowfully.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВ”if I die!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ resumed Maximilian, ГўВҖВңI can only say again that you
are right. Truly, it is I who am mad, and you prove to me that passion
blinds the most well-meaning. I appreciate your calm reasoning. It is
then understood that tomorrow you will be irrevocably promised to M.
Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, not only by that theatrical formality invented to
heighten the effect of a comedy called the signature of the contract,
but your own will?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAgain you drive me to despair, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңagain you
plunge the dagger into the wound! What would you do, tell me, if your
sister listened to such a proposition?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel with a bitter smile, ГўВҖВңI am selfishГўВҖВ”you
have already said soГўВҖВ”and as a selfish man I think not of what others
would do in my situation, but of what I intend doing myself. I think
only that I have known you not a whole year. From the day I first saw
you, all my hopes of happiness have been in securing your affection.
One day you acknowledged that you loved me, and since that day my hope
of future happiness has rested on obtaining you, for to gain you would
be life to me. Now, I think no more; I say only that fortune has turned
against meГўВҖВ”I had thought to gain heaven, and now I have lost it. It is
an every-day occurrence for a gambler to lose not only what he
possesses but also what he has not.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel pronounced these words with perfect calmness; Valentine looked
at him a moment with her large, scrutinizing eyes, endeavoring not to
let Morrel discover the grief which struggled in her heart.

ГўВҖВңBut, in a word, what are you going to do?ГўВҖВқ asked she.

ГўВҖВңI am going to have the honor of taking my leave of you, mademoiselle,
solemnly assuring you that I wish your life may be so calm, so happy,
and so fully occupied, that there may be no place for me even in your
memory.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ murmured Valentine.

ГўВҖВңAdieu, Valentine, adieu!ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, bowing.

ГўВҖВңWhere are you going?ГўВҖВқ cried the young girl, extending her hand through
the opening, and seizing Maximilian by his coat, for she understood
from her own agitated feelings that her loverГўВҖВҷs calmness could not be
real; ГўВҖВңwhere are you going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am going, that I may not bring fresh trouble into your family: and
to set an example which every honest and devoted man, situated as I am,
may follow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBefore you leave me, tell me what you are going to do, Maximilian.ГўВҖВқ
The young man smiled sorrowfully.

ГўВҖВңSpeak, speak!ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңI entreat you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas your resolution changed, Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt cannot change, unhappy man; you know it must not!ГўВҖВқ cried the young
girl.

ГўВҖВңThen adieu, Valentine!ГўВҖВқ

Valentine shook the gate with a strength of which she could not have
been supposed to be possessed, as Morrel was going away, and passing
both her hands through the opening, she clasped and wrung them. ГўВҖВңI must
know what you mean to do!ГўВҖВқ said she. ГўВҖВңWhere are you going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, fear not,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, stopping at a short distance, ГўВҖВңI do
not intend to render another man responsible for the rigorous fate
reserved for me. Another might threaten to seek M. Franz, to provoke
him, and to fight with him; all that would be folly. What has M. Franz
to do with it? He saw me this morning for the first time, and has
already forgotten he has seen me. He did not even know I existed when
it was arranged by your two families that you should be united. I have
no enmity against M. Franz, and promise you the punishment shall not
fall on him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn whom, then!ГўВҖВ”on me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn you? Valentine! Oh, Heaven forbid! Woman is sacred; the woman one
loves is holy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn yourself, then, unhappy man; on yourself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am the only guilty person, am I not?ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian.

ГўВҖВңMaximilian!ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңMaximilian, come back, I entreat you!ГўВҖВқ

He drew near with his sweet smile, and but for his paleness one might
have thought him in his usual happy mood.

ГўВҖВңListen, my dear, my adored Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said he in his melodious and
grave tone; ГўВҖВңthose who, like us, have never had a thought for which we
need blush before the world, such may read each otherГўВҖВҷs hearts. I never
was romantic, and am no melancholy hero. I imitate neither Manfred nor
Anthony; but without words, protestations, or vows, my life has
entwined itself with yours; you leave me, and you are right in doing
so,ГўВҖВ”I repeat it, you are right; but in losing you, I lose my life. The
moment you leave me, Valentine, I am alone in the world. My sister is
happily married; her husband is only my brother-in-law, that is, a man
whom the ties of social life alone attach to me; no one then longer
needs my useless life. This is what I shall do; I will wait until the
very moment you are married, for I will not lose the shadow of one of
those unexpected chances which are sometimes reserved for us, since M.
Franz may, after all, die before that time, a thunderbolt may fall even
on the altar as you approach it,ГўВҖВ”nothing appears impossible to one
condemned to die, and miracles appear quite reasonable when his escape
from death is concerned. I will, then, wait until the last moment, and
when my misery is certain, irremediable, hopeless, I will write a
confidential letter to my brother-in-law, another to the prefect of
police, to acquaint them with my intention, and at the corner of some
wood, on the brink of some abyss, on the bank of some river, I will put
an end to my existence, as certainly as I am the son of the most honest
man who ever lived in France.ГўВҖВқ

30333m



Valentine trembled convulsively; she loosened her hold of the gate, her
arms fell by her side, and two large tears rolled down her cheeks. The
young man stood before her, sorrowful and resolute.

ГўВҖВңOh, for pityГўВҖВҷs sake,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңyou will live, will you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, on my honor,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian; ГўВҖВңbut that will not affect you. You
have done your duty, and your conscience will be at rest.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine fell on her knees, and pressed her almost bursting heart.
ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңMaximilian, my friend, my brother on earth, my
true husband in heaven, I entreat you, do as I do, live in suffering;
perhaps we may one day be united.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAdieu, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ repeated Morrel.

ГўВҖВңMy God,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, raising both her hands to heaven with a
sublime expression, ГўВҖВңI have done my utmost to remain a submissive
daughter; I have begged, entreated, implored; he has regarded neither
my prayers, my entreaties, nor my tears. It is done,ГўВҖВқ cried she, wiping
away her tears, and resuming her firmness, ГўВҖВңI am resolved not to die of
remorse, but rather of shame. Live, Maximilian, and I will be yours.
Say when shall it be? Speak, command, I will obey.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel, who had already gone some few steps away, again returned, and
pale with joy extended both hands towards Valentine through the
opening.

ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdear Valentine, you must not speak thusГўВҖВ”rather
let me die. Why should I obtain you by violence, if our love is mutual?
Is it from mere humanity you bid me live? I would then rather die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTruly,ГўВҖВқ murmured Valentine, ГўВҖВңwho on this earth cares for me, if he
does not? Who has consoled me in my sorrow but he? On whom do my hopes
rest? On whom does my bleeding heart repose? On him, on him, always on
him! Yes, you are right, Maximilian, I will follow you. I will leave
the paternal home, I will give up all. Oh, ungrateful girl that I am,ГўВҖВқ
cried Valentine, sobbing, ГўВҖВңI will give up all, even my dear old
grandfather, whom I had nearly forgotten.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңyou shall not leave him. M. Noirtier has
evinced, you say, a kind feeling towards me. Well, before you leave,
tell him all; his consent would be your justification in GodГўВҖВҷs sight.
As soon as we are married, he shall come and live with us, instead of
one child, he shall have two. You have told me how you talk to him and
how he answers you; I shall very soon learn that language by signs,
Valentine, and I promise you solemnly, that instead of despair, it is
happiness that awaits us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, see, Maximilian, see the power you have over me, you almost make
me believe you; and yet, what you tell me is madness, for my father
will curse meГўВҖВ”he is inflexibleГўВҖВ”he will never pardon me. Now listen to
me, Maximilian; if by artifice, by entreaty, by accidentГўВҖВ”in short, if
by any means I can delay this marriage, will you wait?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I promise you, as faithfully as you have promised me that this
horrible marriage shall not take place, and that if you are dragged
before a magistrate or a priest, you will refuse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI promise you by all that is most sacred to me in the world, namely,
by my mother.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe will wait, then,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңYes, we will wait,ГўВҖВқ replied Valentine, who revived at these words;
ГўВҖВңthere are so many things which may save unhappy beings such as we
are.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI rely on you, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңall you do will be well done;
only if they disregard your prayers, if your father and Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran insist that M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay should be called tomorrow to sign
the contractГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you have my promise, Maximilian.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңInstead of signingГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will go to you, and we will fly; but from this moment until then,
let us not tempt Providence, let us not see each other. It is a
miracle, it is a providence that we have not been discovered. If we
were surprised, if it were known that we met thus, we should have no
further resource.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right, Valentine; but how shall I ascertain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom the notary, M. Deschamps.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd for myselfГўВҖВ”I will write to you, depend on me. I dread this
marriage, Maximilian, as much as you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, my adored Valentine, thank you; that is enough. When once I
know the hour, I will hasten to this spot, you can easily get over this
fence with my assistance, a carriage will await us at the gate, in
which you will accompany me to my sisterГўВҖВҷs; there living, retired or
mingling in society, as you wish, we shall be enabled to use our power
to resist oppression, and not suffer ourselves to be put to death like
sheep, which only defend themselves by sighs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңI will now acknowledge you are right,
Maximilian; and now are you satisfied with your betrothal?ГўВҖВқ said the
young girl sorrowfully.

ГўВҖВңMy adored Valentine, words cannot express one half of my
satisfaction.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine had approached, or rather, had placed her lips so near the
fence, that they nearly touched those of Morrel, which were pressed
against the other side of the cold and inexorable barrier.

ГўВҖВңAdieu, then, till we meet again,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, tearing herself
away. ГўВҖВңI shall hear from you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThanks, thanks, dear love, adieu!ГўВҖВқ

The sound of a kiss was heard, and Valentine fled through the avenue.
Morrel listened to catch the last sound of her dress brushing the
branches, and of her footstep on the gravel, then raised his eyes with
an ineffable smile of thankfulness to heaven for being permitted to be
thus loved, and then also disappeared.

The young man returned home and waited all the evening and all the next
day without getting any message. It was only on the following day, at
about ten oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning, as he was starting to call on M.
Deschamps, the notary, that he received from the postman a small
billet, which he knew to be from Valentine, although he had not before
seen her writing. It was to this effect:

ГўВҖВңTears, entreaties, prayers, have availed me nothing. Yesterday, for
two hours, I was at the church of Saint-Philippe-du-Roule, and for two
hours I prayed most fervently. Heaven is as inflexible as man, and the
signature of the contract is fixed for this evening at nine oГўВҖВҷclock. I
have but one promise and but one heart to give; that promise is pledged
to you, that heart is also yours. This evening, then, at a quarter to
nine at the gate.

ГўВҖВңYour betrothed,

ГўВҖВңValentine de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңP.S.ГўВҖВ”My poor grandmother gets worse and worse; yesterday her fever
amounted to delirium; today her delirium is almost madness. You will be
very kind to me, will you not, Morrel, to make me forget my sorrow in
leaving her thus? I think it is kept a secret from grandpapa Noirtier,
that the contract is to be signed this evening.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel went also to the notary, who confirmed the news that the
contract was to be signed that evening. Then he went to call on Monte
Cristo and heard still more. Franz had been to announce the ceremony,
and Madame de Villefort had also written to beg the count to excuse her
not inviting him; the death of M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran and the dangerous
illness of his widow would cast a gloom over the meeting which she
would regret should be shared by the count whom she wished every
happiness.

The day before Franz had been presented to Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, who
had left her bed to receive him, but had been obliged to return to it
immediately after.

It is easy to suppose that MorrelГўВҖВҷs agitation would not escape the
countГўВҖВҷs penetrating eye. Monte Cristo was more affectionate than
ever,ГўВҖВ”indeed, his manner was so kind that several times Morrel was on
the point of telling him all. But he recalled the promise he had made
to Valentine, and kept his secret.

The young man read ValentineГўВҖВҷs letter twenty times in the course of the
day. It was her first, and on what an occasion! Each time he read it he
renewed his vow to make her happy. How great is the power of a woman
who has made so courageous a resolution! What devotion does she deserve
from him for whom she has sacrificed everything! How ought she really
to be supremely loved! She becomes at once a queen and a wife, and it
is impossible to thank and love her sufficiently.

Morrel longed intensely for the moment when he should hear Valentine
say, ГўВҖВңHere I am, Maximilian; come and help me.ГўВҖВқ He had arranged
everything for her escape; two ladders were hidden in the clover-field;
a cabriolet was ordered for Maximilian alone, without a servant,
without lights; at the turning of the first street they would light the
lamps, as it would be foolish to attract the notice of the police by
too many precautions. Occasionally he shuddered; he thought of the
moment when, from the top of that wall, he should protect the descent
of his dear Valentine, pressing in his arms for the first time her of
whom he had yet only kissed the delicate hand.

When the afternoon arrived and he felt that the hour was drawing near,
he wished for solitude, his agitation was extreme; a simple question
from a friend would have irritated him. He shut himself in his room,
and tried to read, but his eye glanced over the page without
understanding a word, and he threw away the book, and for the second
time sat down to sketch his plan, the ladders and the fence.

At length the hour drew near. Never did a man deeply in love allow the
clocks to go on peacefully. Morrel tormented his so effectually that
they struck eight at half-past six. He then said, ГўВҖВңIt is time to start;
the signature was indeed fixed to take place at nine oГўВҖВҷclock, but
perhaps Valentine will not wait for that.ГўВҖВқ Consequently, Morrel, having
left the Rue Meslay at half-past eight by his timepiece, entered the
clover-field while the clock of Saint-Philippe-du-Roule was striking
eight. The horse and cabriolet were concealed behind a small ruin,
where Morrel had often waited.

The night gradually drew on, and the foliage in the garden assumed a
deeper hue. Then Morrel came out from his hiding-place with a beating
heart, and looked through the small opening in the gate; there was yet
no one to be seen.

The clock struck half-past eight, and still another half-hour was
passed in waiting, while Morrel walked to and fro, and gazed more and
more frequently through the opening. The garden became darker still,
but in the darkness he looked in vain for the white dress, and in the
silence he vainly listened for the sound of footsteps. The house, which
was discernible through the trees, remained in darkness, and gave no
indication that so important an event as the signature of a
marriage-contract was going on. Morrel looked at his watch, which
wanted a quarter to ten; but soon the same clock he had already heard
strike two or three times rectified the error by striking half-past
nine.

This was already half an hour past the time Valentine had fixed. It was
a terrible moment for the young man. The slightest rustling of the
foliage, the least whistling of the wind, attracted his attention, and
drew the perspiration to his brow; then he tremblingly fixed his
ladder, and, not to lose a moment, placed his foot on the first step.
Amidst all these alternations of hope and fear, the clock struck ten.
ГўВҖВңIt is impossible,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңthat the signing of a contract
should occupy so long a time without unexpected interruptions. I have
weighed all the chances, calculated the time required for all the
forms; something must have happened.ГўВҖВқ

And then he walked rapidly to and fro, and pressed his burning forehead
against the fence. Had Valentine fainted? or had she been discovered
and stopped in her flight? These were the only obstacles which appeared
possible to the young man.

The idea that her strength had failed her in attempting to escape, and
that she had fainted in one of the paths, was the one that most
impressed itself upon his mind. ГўВҖВңIn that case,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI should lose
her, and by my own fault.ГўВҖВқ He dwelt on this idea for a moment, then it
appeared reality. He even thought he could perceive something on the
ground at a distance; he ventured to call, and it seemed to him that
the wind wafted back an almost inarticulate sigh.

At last the half-hour struck. It was impossible to wait longer, his
temples throbbed violently, his eyes were growing dim; he passed one
leg over the wall, and in a moment leaped down on the other side. He
was on VillefortГўВҖВҷs premisesГўВҖВ”had arrived there by scaling the wall. What
might be the consequences? However, he had not ventured thus far to
draw back. He followed a short distance close under the wall, then
crossed a path, hid entered a clump of trees. In a moment he had passed
through them, and could see the house distinctly.

30341m



Then Morrel saw that he had been right in believing that the house was
not illuminated. Instead of lights at every window, as is customary on
days of ceremony, he saw only a gray mass, which was veiled also by a
cloud, which at that moment obscured the moonГўВҖВҷs feeble light. A light
moved rapidly from time to time past three windows of the second floor.
These three windows were in Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs room. Another
remained motionless behind some red curtains which were in Madame de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs bedroom. Morrel guessed all this. So many times, in order
to follow Valentine in thought at every hour in the day, had he made
her describe the whole house, that without having seen it he knew it
all.

This darkness and silence alarmed Morrel still more than ValentineГўВҖВҷs
absence had done. Almost mad with grief, and determined to venture
everything in order to see Valentine once more, and be certain of the
misfortune he feared, Morrel gained the edge of the clump of trees, and
was going to pass as quickly as possible through the flower-garden,
when the sound of a voice, still at some distance, but which was borne
upon the wind, reached him. At this sound, as he was already partially
exposed to view, he stepped back and concealed himself completely,
remaining perfectly motionless.

He had formed his resolution. If it was Valentine alone, he would speak
as she passed; if she was accompanied, and he could not speak, still he
should see her, and know that she was safe; if they were strangers, he
would listen to their conversation, and might understand something of
this hitherto incomprehensible mystery.

The moon had just then escaped from behind the cloud which had
concealed it, and Morrel saw Villefort come out upon the steps,
followed by a gentleman in black. They descended, and advanced towards
the clump of trees, and Morrel soon recognized the other gentleman as
Doctor dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.

30339m



The young man, seeing them approach, drew back mechanically, until he
found himself stopped by a sycamore-tree in the centre of the clump;
there he was compelled to remain. Soon the two gentlemen stopped also.

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear doctor,ГўВҖВқ said the procureur, ГўВҖВңHeaven declares itself
against my house! What a dreadful deathГўВҖВ”what a blow! Seek not to
console me; alas, nothing can alleviate so great a sorrowГўВҖВ”the wound is
too deep and too fresh! Dead, dead!ГўВҖВқ

The cold sweat sprang to the young manГўВҖВҷs brow, and his teeth chattered.
Who could be dead in that house, which Villefort himself had called
accursed?

ГўВҖВңMy dear M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ replied the doctor, with a tone which
redoubled the terror of the young man, ГўВҖВңI have not led you here to
console you; on the contraryГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat can you mean?ГўВҖВқ asked the procureur, alarmed.

ГўВҖВңI mean that behind the misfortune which has just happened to you,
there is another, perhaps, still greater.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan it be possible?ГўВҖВқ murmured Villefort, clasping his hands. ГўВҖВңWhat are
you going to tell me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre we quite alone, my friend?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, quite; but why all these precautions?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I have a terrible secret to communicate to you,ГўВҖВқ said the
doctor. ГўВҖВңLet us sit down.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort fell, rather than seated himself. The doctor stood before
him, with one hand placed on his shoulder. Morrel, horrified, supported
his head with one hand, and with the other pressed his heart, lest its
beatings should be heard. ГўВҖВңDead, dead!ГўВҖВқ repeated he within himself; and
he felt as if he were also dying.

ГўВҖВңSpeak, doctorГўВҖВ”I am listening,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңstrikeГўВҖВ”I am prepared
for everything!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame de Saint-MГғВ©ran was, doubtless, advancing in years, but she
enjoyed excellent health.ГўВҖВқ Morrel began again to breathe freely, which
he had not done during the last ten minutes.

ГўВҖВңGrief has consumed her,ГўВҖВқ said VillefortГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyes, grief, doctor! After
living forty years with the marquisГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not grief, my dear Villefort,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor; ГўВҖВңgrief may kill,
although it rarely does, and never in a day, never in an hour, never in
ten minutes.ГўВҖВқ Villefort answered nothing, he simply raised his head,
which had been cast down before, and looked at the doctor with
amazement.

ГўВҖВңWere you present during the last struggle?ГўВҖВқ asked M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.

ГўВҖВңI was,ГўВҖВқ replied the procureur; ГўВҖВңyou begged me not to leave.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you notice the symptoms of the disease to which Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran has fallen a victim?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did. Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran had three successive attacks, at
intervals of some minutes, each one more serious than the former. When
you arrived, Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran had already been panting for breath
some minutes; she then had a fit, which I took to be simply a nervous
attack, and it was only when I saw her raise herself in the bed, and
her limbs and neck appear stiffened, that I became really alarmed. Then
I understood from your countenance there was more to fear than I had
thought. This crisis past, I endeavored to catch your eye, but could
not. You held her handГўВҖВ”you were feeling her pulseГўВҖВ”and the second fit
came on before you had turned towards me. This was more terrible than
the first; the same nervous movements were repeated, and the mouth
contracted and turned purple.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd at the third she expired.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt the end of the first attack I discovered symptoms of tetanus; you
confirmed my opinion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, before others,ГўВҖВқ replied the doctor; ГўВҖВңbut now we are aloneГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat are you going to say? Oh, spare me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat the symptoms of tetanus and poisoning by vegetable substances are
the same.ГўВҖВқ

M. de Villefort started from his seat, then in a moment fell down
again, silent and motionless. Morrel knew not if he were dreaming or
awake.

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor; ГўВҖВңI know the full importance of the statement
I have just made, and the disposition of the man to whom I have made
it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you speak to me as a magistrate or as a friend?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort.

ГўВҖВңAs a friend, and only as a friend, at this moment. The similarity in
the symptoms of tetanus and poisoning by vegetable substances is so
great, that were I obliged to affirm by oath what I have now stated, I
should hesitate; I therefore repeat to you, I speak not to a
magistrate, but to a friend. And to that friend I say, ГўВҖВҳDuring the
three-quarters of an hour that the struggle continued, I watched the
convulsions and the death of Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, and am thoroughly
convinced that not only did her death proceed from poison, but I could
also specify the poison.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan it be possible?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe symptoms are marked, do you see?ГўВҖВ”sleep broken by nervous spasms,
excitation of the brain, torpor of the nerve centres. Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran succumbed to a powerful dose of brucine or of strychnine,
which by some mistake, perhaps, has been given to her.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort seized the doctorГўВҖВҷs hand.

ГўВҖВңOh, it is impossible,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI must be dreaming! It is frightful
to hear such things from such a man as you! Tell me, I entreat you, my
dear doctor, that you may be deceived.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless I may, butГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut?ГўВҖВқ

30345m



ГўВҖВңBut I do not think so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave pity on me doctor! So many dreadful things have happened to me
lately that I am on the verge of madness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas anyone besides me seen Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas anything been sent for from a chemistГўВҖВҷs that I have not examined?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHad Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran any enemies?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot to my knowledge.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWould her death affect anyoneГўВҖВҷs interest?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt could not indeed, my daughter is her only heiressГўВҖВ”Valentine alone.
Oh, if such a thought could present itself, I would stab myself to
punish my heart for having for one instant harbored it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңI would not accuse
anyone; I speak only of an accident, you understand,ГўВҖВ”of a mistake,ГўВҖВ”but
whether accident or mistake, the fact is there; it is on my conscience
and compels me to speak aloud to you. Make inquiry.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf whom?ГўВҖВ”how?ГўВҖВ”of what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMay not Barrois, the old servant, have made a mistake, and have given
Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran a dose prepared for his master?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor my father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut how could a dose prepared for M. Noirtier poison Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing is more simple. You know poisons become remedies in certain
diseases, of which paralysis is one. For instance, having tried every
other remedy to restore movement and speech to M. Noirtier, I resolved
to try one last means, and for three months I have been giving him
brucine; so that in the last dose I ordered for him there were six
grains. This quantity, which is perfectly safe to administer to the
paralyzed frame of M. Noirtier, which has become gradually accustomed
to it, would be sufficient to kill another person.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear doctor, there is no communication between M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs
apartment and that of Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, and Barrois never entered
my mother-in-lawГўВҖВҷs room. In short, doctor although I know you to be the
most conscientious man in the world, and although I place the utmost
reliance in you, I want, notwithstanding my conviction, to believe this
axiom, _errare humanum est_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs there one of my brethren in whom you have equal confidence with
myself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy do you ask me that?ГўВҖВ”what do you wish?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSend for him; I will tell him what I have seen, and we will consult
together, and examine the body.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you will find traces of poison?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I did not say of poison, but we can prove what was the state of
the body; we shall discover the cause of her sudden death, and we shall
say, ГўВҖВҳDear Villefort, if this thing has been caused by negligence,
watch over your servants; if from hatred, watch your enemies.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you propose to me, dГўВҖВҷAvrigny?ГўВҖВқ said Villefort in despair; ГўВҖВңso
soon as another is admitted into our secret, an inquest will become
necessary; and an inquest in my houseГўВҖВ”impossible! Still,ГўВҖВқ continued the
procureur, looking at the doctor with uneasiness, ГўВҖВңif you wish itГўВҖВ”if
you demand it, why then it shall be done. But, doctor, you see me
already so grievedГўВҖВ”how can I introduce into my house so much scandal,
after so much sorrow? My wife and my daughter would die of it! And I,
doctorГўВҖВ”you know a man does not arrive at the post I occupyГўВҖВ”one has not
been kingГўВҖВҷs attorney twenty-five years without having amassed a
tolerable number of enemies; mine are numerous. Let this affair be
talked of, it will be a triumph for them, which will make them rejoice,
and cover me with shame. Pardon me, doctor, these worldly ideas; were
you a priest I should not dare tell you that, but you are a man, and
you know mankind. Doctor, pray recall your words; you have said
nothing, have you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ replied the doctor, ГўВҖВңmy first duty is to
humanity. I would have saved Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, if science could
have done it; but she is dead and my duty regards the living. Let us
bury this terrible secret in the deepest recesses of our hearts; I am
willing, if anyone should suspect this, that my silence on the subject
should be imputed to my ignorance. Meanwhile, sir, watch alwaysГўВҖВ”watch
carefully, for perhaps the evil may not stop here. And when you have
found the culprit, if you find him, I will say to you, ГўВҖВҳYou are a
magistrate, do as you will!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thank you, doctor,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort with indescribable joy; ГўВҖВңI never
had a better friend than you.ГўВҖВқ And, as if he feared Doctor dГўВҖВҷAvrigny
would recall his promise, he hurried him towards the house.

When they were gone, Morrel ventured out from under the trees, and the
moon shone upon his face, which was so pale it might have been taken
for that of a ghost.

ГўВҖВңI am manifestly protected in a most wonderful, but most terrible
manner,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңbut Valentine, poor girl, how will she bear so much
sorrow?ГўВҖВқ

As he thought thus, he looked alternately at the window with red
curtains and the three windows with white curtains. The light had
almost disappeared from the former; doubtless Madame de Villefort had
just put out her lamp, and the nightlamp alone reflected its dull light
on the window. At the extremity of the building, on the contrary, he
saw one of the three windows open. A wax-light placed on the
mantle-piece threw some of its pale rays without, and a shadow was seen
for one moment on the balcony. Morrel shuddered; he thought he heard a
sob.

It cannot be wondered at that his mind, generally so courageous, but
now disturbed by the two strongest human passions, love and fear, was
weakened even to the indulgence of superstitious thoughts. Although it
was impossible that Valentine should see him, hidden as he was, he
thought he heard the shadow at the window call him; his disturbed mind
told him so. This double error became an irresistible reality, and by
one of the incomprehensible transports of youth, he bounded from his
hiding-place, and with two strides, at the risk of being seen, at the
risk of alarming Valentine, at the risk of being discovered by some
exclamation which might escape the young girl, he crossed the
flower-garden, which by the light of the moon resembled a large white
lake, and having passed the rows of orange-trees which extended in
front of the house, he reached the step, ran quickly up and pushed the
door, which opened without offering any resistance.

Valentine had not seen him. Her eyes, raised towards heaven, were
watching a silvery cloud gliding over the azure, its form that of a
shadow mounting towards heaven. Her poetic and excited mind pictured it
as the soul of her grandmother.

Meanwhile, Morrel had traversed the anteroom and found the staircase,
which, being carpeted, prevented his approach being heard, and he had
regained that degree of confidence that the presence of M. de Villefort
even would not have alarmed him. He was quite prepared for any such
encounter. He would at once approach ValentineГўВҖВҷs father and acknowledge
all, begging Villefort to pardon and sanction the love which united two
fond and loving hearts. Morrel was mad.

Happily he did not meet anyone. Now, especially, did he find the
description Valentine had given of the interior of the house useful to
him; he arrived safely at the top of the staircase, and while he was
feeling his way, a sob indicated the direction he was to take. He
turned back, a door partly open enabled him to see his road, and to
hear the voice of one in sorrow. He pushed the door open and entered.
At the other end of the room, under a white sheet which covered it, lay
the corpse, still more alarming to Morrel since the account he had so
unexpectedly overheard. By its side, on her knees, and with her head
buried in the cushion of an easy-chair, was Valentine, trembling and
sobbing, her hands extended above her head, clasped and stiff. She had
turned from the window, which remained open, and was praying in accents
that would have affected the most unfeeling; her words were rapid,
incoherent, unintelligible, for the burning weight of grief almost
stopped her utterance.

The moon shining through the open blinds made the lamp appear to burn
paler, and cast a sepulchral hue over the whole scene. Morrel could not
resist this; he was not exemplary for piety, he was not easily
impressed, but Valentine suffering, weeping, wringing her hands before
him, was more than he could bear in silence. He sighed, and whispered a
name, and the head bathed in tears and pressed on the velvet cushion of
the chairГўВҖВ”a head like that of a Magdalen by CorreggioГўВҖВ”was raised and
turned towards him. Valentine perceived him without betraying the least
surprise. A heart overwhelmed with one great grief is insensible to
minor emotions. Morrel held out his hand to her. Valentine, as her only
apology for not having met him, pointed to the corpse under the sheet,
and began to sob again.

Neither dared for some time to speak in that room. They hesitated to
break the silence which death seemed to impose; at length Valentine
ventured.

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңhow came you here? Alas, I would say you are
welcome, had not death opened the way for you into this house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel with a trembling voice, ГўВҖВңI had waited since
half-past eight, and did not see you come; I became uneasy, leaped the
wall, found my way through the garden, when voices conversing about the
fatal eventГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat voices?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine. Morrel shuddered as he thought of the
conversation of the doctor and M. de Villefort, and he thought he could
see through the sheet the extended hands, the stiff neck, and the
purple lips.

ГўВҖВңYour servants,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwho were repeating the whole of the
sorrowful story; from them I learned it all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut it was risking the failure of our plan to come up here, love.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңForgive me,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel; ГўВҖВңI will go away.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңyou might meet someone; stay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut if anyone should come hereГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

The young girl shook her head. ГўВҖВңNo one will come,ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңdo not
fear, there is our safeguard,ГўВҖВқ pointing to the bed.

ГўВҖВңBut what has become of M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel.

30349m



ГўВҖВңM. Franz arrived to sign the contract just as my dear grandmother was
dying.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel with a feeling of selfish joy; for he thought this
death would cause the wedding to be postponed indefinitely.

ГўВҖВңBut what redoubles my sorrow,ГўВҖВқ continued the young girl, as if this
feeling was to receive its immediate punishment, ГўВҖВңis that the poor old
lady, on her death-bed, requested that the marriage might take place as
soon as possible; she also, thinking to protect me, was acting against
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHark!ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. They both listened; steps were distinctly heard in
the corridor and on the stairs.

ГўВҖВңIt is my father, who has just left his study.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo accompany the doctor to the door,ГўВҖВқ added Morrel.

ГўВҖВңHow do you know it is the doctor?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine, astonished.

ГўВҖВңI imagined it must be,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

Valentine looked at the young man; they heard the street door close,
then M. de Villefort locked the garden door, and returned upstairs. He
stopped a moment in the anteroom, as if hesitating whether to turn to
his own apartment or into Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs; Morrel concealed
himself behind a door; Valentine remained motionless, grief seeming to
deprive her of all fear. M. de Villefort passed on to his own room.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңyou can neither go out by the front door nor by
the garden.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel looked at her with astonishment.

ГўВҖВңThere is but one way left you that is safe,ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңit is through
my grandfatherГўВҖВҷs room.ГўВҖВқ She rose. ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ she added.

ГўВҖВңWhere?ГўВҖВқ asked Maximilian.

ГўВҖВңTo my grandfatherГўВҖВҷs room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI in M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs apartment?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan you mean it, Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have long wished it; he is my only remaining friend and we both need
his help,ГўВҖВ”come.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe careful, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, hesitating to comply with the
young girlГўВҖВҷs wishes; ГўВҖВңI now see my errorГўВҖВ”I acted like a madman in
coming in here. Are you sure you are more reasonable?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңand I have but one scruple,ГўВҖВ”that of leaving my
dear grandmotherГўВҖВҷs remains, which I had undertaken to watch.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңdeath is in itself sacred.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңbesides, it will not be for long.ГўВҖВқ

She then crossed the corridor, and led the way down a narrow staircase
to M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room; Morrel followed her on tiptoe; at the door they
found the old servant.

ГўВҖВңBarrois,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңshut the door, and let no one come in.ГўВҖВқ

She passed first.

Noirtier, seated in his chair, and listening to every sound, was
watching the door; he saw Valentine, and his eye brightened. There was
something grave and solemn in the approach of the young girl which
struck the old man, and immediately his bright eye began to
interrogate.

ГўВҖВңDear grandfather.ГўВҖВқ said she hurriedly, ГўВҖВңyou know poor grandmamma died
an hour since, and now I have no friend in the world but you.ГўВҖВқ

His expressive eyes evinced the greatest tenderness.

ГўВҖВңTo you alone, then, may I confide my sorrows and my hopes?ГўВҖВқ

The paralytic motioned ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine took MaximilianГўВҖВҷs hand.

ГўВҖВңLook attentively, then, at this gentleman.ГўВҖВқ

The old man fixed his scrutinizing gaze with slight astonishment on
Morrel.

ГўВҖВңIt is M. Maximilian Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңthe son of that good merchant
of Marseilles, whom you doubtless recollect.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the old man.

ГўВҖВңHe brings an irreproachable name, which Maximilian is likely to render
glorious, since at thirty years of age he is a captain, an officer of
the Legion of Honor.ГўВҖВқ

The old man signified that he recollected him.

ГўВҖВңWell, grandpapa,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, kneeling before him, and pointing to
Maximilian, ГўВҖВңI love him, and will be only his; were I compelled to
marry another, I would destroy myself.ГўВҖВқ

The eyes of the paralytic expressed a multitude of tumultuous thoughts.

ГўВҖВңYou like M. Maximilian Morrel, do you not, grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ asked
Valentine.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you will protect us, who are your children, against the will of my
father?ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier cast an intelligent glance at Morrel, as if to say, ГўВҖВңperhaps I
may.ГўВҖВқ

Maximilian understood him.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңyou have a sacred duty to fulfil in your
deceased grandmotherГўВҖВҷs room, will you allow me the honor of a few
minutesГўВҖВҷ conversation with M. Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is it,ГўВҖВқ said the old manГўВҖВҷs eye. Then he looked anxiously at
Valentine.

ГўВҖВңDo you fear he will not understand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, we have so often spoken of you, that he knows exactly how I talk
to you.ГўВҖВқ Then turning to Maximilian, with an adorable smile; although
shaded by sorrow,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңHe knows everything I know,ГўВҖВқ said she.

Valentine arose, placed a chair for Morrel, requested Barrois not to
admit anyone, and having tenderly embraced her grandfather, and
sorrowfully taken leave of Morrel, she went away. To prove to Noirtier
that he was in ValentineГўВҖВҷs confidence and knew all their secrets,
Morrel took the dictionary, a pen, and some paper, and placed them all
on a table where there was a light.

ГўВҖВңBut first,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңallow me, sir, to tell you who I am, how
much I love Mademoiselle Valentine, and what are my designs respecting
her.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier made a sign that he would listen.

It was an imposing sight to witness this old man, apparently a mere
useless burden, becoming the sole protector, support, and adviser of
the lovers who were both young, beautiful, and strong. His remarkably
noble and austere expression struck Morrel, who began his story with
trembling. He related the manner in which he had become acquainted with
Valentine, and how he had loved her, and that Valentine, in her
solitude and her misfortune, had accepted the offer of his devotion. He
told him his birth, his position, his fortune, and more than once, when
he consulted the look of the paralytic, that look answered, ГўВҖВңThat is
good, proceed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, when he had finished the first part of his
recital, ГўВҖВңnow I have told you of my love and my hopes, may I inform you
of my intentions?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ signified the old man.

ГўВҖВңThis was our resolution; a cabriolet was in waiting at the gate, in
which I intended to carry off Valentine to my sisterГўВҖВҷs house, to marry
her, and to wait respectfully M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs pardon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңWe must not do so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not sanction our project?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is another way,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. The old manГўВҖВҷs interrogative eye
said, ГўВҖВңWhich?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will go,ГўВҖВқ continued Maximilian, ГўВҖВңI will seek M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinayГўВҖВ”I am
happy to be able to mention this in Mademoiselle de VillefortГўВҖВҷs
absenceГўВҖВ”and will conduct myself toward him so as to compel him to
challenge me.ГўВҖВқ NoirtierГўВҖВҷs look continued to interrogate.

ГўВҖВңYou wish to know what I will do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will find him, as I told you. I will tell him the ties which bind me
to Mademoiselle Valentine; if he be a sensible man, he will prove it by
renouncing of his own accord the hand of his betrothed, and will secure
my friendship, and love until death; if he refuse, either through
interest or ridiculous pride, after I have proved to him that he would
be forcing my wife from me, that Valentine loves me, and will have no
other, I will fight with him, give him every advantage, and I shall
kill him, or he will kill me; if I am victorious, he will not marry
Valentine, and if I die, I am very sure Valentine will not marry him.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier watched, with indescribable pleasure, this noble and sincere
countenance, on which every sentiment his tongue uttered was depicted,
adding by the expression of his fine features all that coloring adds to
a sound and faithful drawing.

Still, when Morrel had finished, he shut his eyes several times, which
was his manner of saying ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңyou disapprove of this second project, as you did
of the first?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do,ГўВҖВқ signified the old man.

ГўВҖВңBut what then must be done?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel. ГўВҖВңMadame de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs
last request was, that the marriage might not be delayed; must I let
things take their course?ГўВҖВқ Noirtier did not move. ГўВҖВңI understand,ГўВҖВқ said
Morrel; ГўВҖВңI am to wait.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut delay may ruin our plan, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man. ГўВҖВңAlone,
Valentine has no power; she will be compelled to submit. I am here
almost miraculously, and can scarcely hope for so good an opportunity
to occur again. Believe me, there are only the two plans I have
proposed to you; forgive my vanity, and tell me which you prefer. Do
you authorize Mademoiselle Valentine to intrust herself to my honor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you prefer I should seek M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhence then will come the help we needГўВҖВ”from chance?ГўВҖВқ resumed Morrel.

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou thoroughly understand me, sir? Pardon my eagerness, for my life
depends on your answer. Will our help come from you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are sure of it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ There was so much firmness in the look which gave this answer,
no one could, at any rate, doubt his will, if they did his power.

ГўВҖВңOh, thank you a thousand times! But how, unless a miracle should
restore your speech, your gesture, your movement, how can you, chained
to that armchair, dumb and motionless, oppose this marriage?ГўВҖВқ A smile
lit up the old manГўВҖВҷs face, a strange smile of the eyes in a paralyzed
face.

ГўВҖВңThen I must wait?ГўВҖВқ asked the young man.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the contract?ГўВҖВқ The same smile returned. ГўВҖВңWill you assure me it
shall not be signed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңThe contract shall not be signed!ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel. ГўВҖВңOh, pardon me, sir;
I can scarcely realize so great a happiness. Will they not sign it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said the paralytic. Notwithstanding that assurance, Morrel still
hesitated. This promise of an impotent old man was so strange that,
instead of being the result of the power of his will, it might emanate
from enfeebled organs. Is it not natural that the madman, ignorant of
his folly, should attempt things beyond his power? The weak man talks
of burdens he can raise, the timid of giants he can confront, the poor
of treasures he spends, the most humble peasant, in the height of his
pride, calls himself Jupiter. Whether Noirtier understood the young
manГўВҖВҷs indecision, or whether he had not full confidence in his
docility, he looked uneasily at him.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you wish, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel; ГўВҖВңthat I should renew my promise
of remaining tranquil?ГўВҖВқ NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye remained fixed and firm, as if
to imply that a promise did not suffice; then it passed from his face
to his hands.

ГўВҖВңShall I swear to you, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked Maximilian.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the paralytic with the same solemnity. Morrel understood
that the old man attached great importance to an oath. He extended his
hand.

ГўВҖВңI swear to you, on my honor,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңto await your decision
respecting the course I am to pursue with M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is right,ГўВҖВқ said the old man.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңdo you wish me to retire?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWithout seeing Mademoiselle Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel made a sign that he was ready to obey. ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңfirst
allow me to embrace you as your daughter did just now.ГўВҖВқ NoirtierГўВҖВҷs
expression could not be understood. The young man pressed his lips on
the same spot, on the old manГўВҖВҷs forehead, where ValentineГўВҖВҷs had been.
Then he bowed a second time and retired.

He found outside the door the old servant, to whom Valentine had given
directions. Morrel was conducted along a dark passage, which led to a
little door opening on the garden, soon found the spot where he had
entered, with the assistance of the shrubs gained the top of the wall,
and by his ladder was in an instant in the clover-field where his
cabriolet was still waiting for him. He got in it, and thoroughly
wearied by so many emotions, arrived about midnight in the Rue Meslay,
threw himself on his bed and slept soundly.



VOLUME FOUR

40010m



40012m



40020m




 Chapter 74. The Villefort Family Vault

Two days after, a considerable crowd was assembled, towards ten oГўВҖВҷclock
in the morning, around the door of M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs house, and a long
file of mourning-coaches and private carriages extended along the
Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ© and the Rue de la PГғВ©piniГғВЁre. Among them was one
of a very singular form, which appeared to have come from a distance.
It was a kind of covered wagon, painted black, and was one of the first
to arrive. Inquiry was made, and it was ascertained that, by a strange
coincidence, this carriage contained the corpse of the Marquis de
Saint-MГғВ©ran, and that those who had come thinking to attend one funeral
would follow two. Their number was great. The Marquis de Saint-MГғВ©ran,
one of the most zealous and faithful dignitaries of Louis XVIII. and
King Charles X., had preserved a great number of friends, and these,
added to the personages whom the usages of society gave Villefort a
claim on, formed a considerable body.

Due information was given to the authorities, and permission obtained
that the two funerals should take place at the same time. A second
hearse, decked with the same funereal pomp, was brought to M. de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs door, and the coffin removed into it from the post-wagon.
The two bodies were to be interred in the cemetery of PГғВЁre-Lachaise,
where M. de Villefort had long since had a tomb prepared for the
reception of his family. The remains of poor RenГғВ©e were already
deposited there, and now, after ten years of separation, her father and
mother were to be reunited with her.

The Parisians, always curious, always affected by funereal display,
looked on with religious silence while the splendid procession
accompanied to their last abode two of the number of the old
aristocracyГўВҖВ”the greatest protectors of commerce and sincere devotees to
their principles.

In one of the mourning-coaches Beauchamp, Debray, and ChГғВўteau-Renaud
were talking of the very sudden death of the marchioness.

ГўВҖВңI saw Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran only last year at Marseilles, when I was
coming back from Algiers,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңshe looked like a
woman destined to live to be a hundred years old, from her apparent
sound health and great activity of mind and body. How old was she?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFranz assured me,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, ГўВҖВңthat she was sixty-six years old.
But she has not died of old age, but of grief; it appears that since
the death of the marquis, which affected her very deeply, she has not
completely recovered her reason.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut of what disease, then, did she die?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray.

ГўВҖВңIt is said to have been a congestion of the brain, or apoplexy, which
is the same thing, is it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNearly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is difficult to believe that it was apoplexy,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp.
ГўВҖВңMadame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, whom I once saw, was short, of slender form,
and of a much more nervous than sanguine temperament; grief could
hardly produce apoplexy in such a constitution as that of Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt any rate,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңwhatever disease or doctor may have killed
her, M. de Villefort, or rather, Mademoiselle Valentine,ГўВҖВ”or, still
rather, our friend Franz, inherits a magnificent fortune, amounting, I
believe, to 80,000 livres per annum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd this fortune will be doubled at the death of the old Jacobin,
Noirtier.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is a tenacious old grandfather,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp. ГўВҖВң_Tenacem
propositi virum_. I think he must have made an agreement with death to
outlive all his heirs, and he appears likely to succeed. He resembles
the old Conventionalist of ГўВҖВҷ93, who said to Napoleon, in 1814, ГўВҖВҳYou
bend because your empire is a young stem, weakened by rapid growth.
Take the Republic for a tutor; let us return with renewed strength to
the battle-field, and I promise you 500,000 soldiers, another Marengo,
and a second Austerlitz. Ideas do not become extinct, sire; they
slumber sometimes, but only revive the stronger before they sleep
entirely.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIdeas and men appeared the same to him,ГўВҖВқ said Albert. ГўВҖВңOne thing only
puzzles me, namely, how Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay will like a grandfather who
cannot be separated from his wife. But where is Franz?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the first carriage, with M. de Villefort, who considers him already
as one of the family.ГўВҖВқ

40024m



Such was the conversation in almost all the carriages; these two sudden
deaths, so quickly following each other, astonished everyone, but no
one suspected the terrible secret which M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny had communicated,
in his nocturnal walk to M. de Villefort. They arrived in about an hour
at the cemetery; the weather was mild, but dull, and in harmony with
the funeral ceremony. Among the groups which flocked towards the family
vault, ChГғВўteau-Renaud recognized Morrel, who had come alone in a
cabriolet, and walked silently along the path bordered with yew-trees.

ГўВҖВңYou here?ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, passing his arms through the young
captainГўВҖВҷs; ГўВҖВңare you a friend of VillefortГўВҖВҷs? How is it that I have
never met you at his house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am no acquaintance of M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs,ГўВҖВқ answered Morrel, ГўВҖВңbut I
was of Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran.ГўВҖВқ Albert came up to them at this moment
with Franz.

ГўВҖВңThe time and place are but ill-suited for an introduction.ГўВҖВқ said
Albert; ГўВҖВңbut we are not superstitious. M. Morrel, allow me to present
to you M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, a delightful travelling companion, with whom
I made the tour of Italy. My dear Franz, M. Maximilian Morrel, an
excellent friend I have acquired in your absence, and whose name you
will hear me mention every time I make any allusion to affection, wit,
or amiability.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel hesitated for a moment; he feared it would be hypocritical to
accost in a friendly manner the man whom he was tacitly opposing, but
his oath and the gravity of the circumstances recurred to his memory;
he struggled to conceal his emotion and bowed to Franz.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle de Villefort is in deep sorrow, is she not?ГўВҖВқ said Debray
to Franz.

ГўВҖВңExtremely,ГўВҖВқ replied he; ГўВҖВңshe looked so pale this morning, I scarcely
knew her.ГўВҖВқ

These apparently simple words pierced Morrel to the heart. This man had
seen Valentine, and spoken to her! The young and high-spirited officer
required all his strength of mind to resist breaking his oath. He took
the arm of ChГғВўteau-Renaud, and turned towards the vault, where the
attendants had already placed the two coffins.

ГўВҖВңThis is a magnificent habitation,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, looking towards the
mausoleum; ГўВҖВңa summer and winter palace. You will, in turn, enter it, my
dear dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, for you will soon be numbered as one of the family. I,
as a philosopher, should like a little country-house, a cottage down
there under the trees, without so many free-stones over my poor body.
In dying, I will say to those around me what Voltaire wrote to Piron:
ГўВҖВҳ_Eo rus_, and all will be over.ГўВҖВҷ But come, Franz, take courage, your
wife is an heiress.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, Beauchamp, you are unbearable. Politics has made you laugh at
everything, and political men have made you disbelieve everything. But
when you have the honor of associating with ordinary men, and the
pleasure of leaving politics for a moment, try to find your
affectionate heart, which you leave with your stick when you go to the
Chamber.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut tell me,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңwhat is life? Is it not a halt in
DeathГўВҖВҷs anteroom?ГўВҖВқ

40026m



ГўВҖВңI am prejudiced against Beauchamp,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, drawing Franz away,
and leaving the former to finish his philosophical dissertation with
Debray.

The Villefort vault formed a square of white stones, about twenty feet
high; an interior partition separated the two families, and each
apartment had its entrance door. Here were not, as in other tombs,
ignoble drawers, one above another, where thrift bestows its dead and
labels them like specimens in a museum; all that was visible within the
bronze gates was a gloomy-looking room, separated by a wall from the
vault itself. The two doors before mentioned were in the middle of this
wall, and enclosed the Villefort and Saint-MГғВ©ran coffins. There grief
might freely expend itself without being disturbed by the trifling
loungers who came from a picnic party to visit PГғВЁre-Lachaise, or by
lovers who make it their rendezvous.

The two coffins were placed on trestles previously prepared for their
reception in the right-hand crypt belonging to the Saint-MГғВ©ran family.
Villefort, Franz, and a few near relatives alone entered the sanctuary.

As the religious ceremonies had all been performed at the door, and
there was no address given, the party all separated; ChГғВўteau-Renaud,
Albert, and Morrel, went one way, and Debray and Beauchamp the other.
Franz remained with M. de Villefort; at the gate of the cemetery Morrel
made an excuse to wait; he saw Franz and M. de Villefort get into the
same mourning-coach, and thought this meeting forboded evil. He then
returned to Paris, and although in the same carriage with
ChГғВўteau-Renaud and Albert, he did not hear one word of their
conversation.

As Franz was about to take leave of M. de Villefort, ГўВҖВңWhen shall I see
you again?ГўВҖВқ said the latter.

ГўВҖВңAt what time you please, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz.

ГўВҖВңAs soon as possible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am at your command, sir; shall we return together?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf not unpleasant to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, I shall feel much pleasure.ГўВҖВқ

Thus, the future father and son-in-law stepped into the same carriage,
and Morrel, seeing them pass, became uneasy. Villefort and Franz
returned to the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©. The procureur, without going to
see either his wife or his daughter, went at once to his study, and,
offering the young man a chair:

ГўВҖВңM. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңallow me to remind you at this moment,ГўВҖВ”which
is perhaps not so ill-chosen as at first sight may appear, for
obedience to the wishes of the departed is the first offering which
should be made at their tomb,ГўВҖВ”allow me then to remind you of the wish
expressed by Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran on her death-bed, that ValentineГўВҖВҷs
wedding might not be deferred. You know the affairs of the deceased are
in perfect order, and her will bequeaths to Valentine the entire
property of the Saint-MГғВ©ran family; the notary showed me the documents
yesterday, which will enable us to draw up the contract immediately.
You may call on the notary, M. Deschamps, Place Beauveau, Faubourg
Saint-HonorГғВ©, and you have my authority to inspect those deeds.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, ГўВҖВңit is not, perhaps, the moment for
Mademoiselle Valentine, who is in deep distress, to think of a husband;
indeed, I fearГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

40028m



ГўВҖВңValentine will have no greater pleasure than that of fulfilling her
grandmotherГўВҖВҷs last injunctions; there will be no obstacle from that
quarter, I assure you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn that case,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz, ГўВҖВңas I shall raise none, you may make
arrangements when you please; I have pledged my word, and shall feel
pleasure and happiness in adhering to it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңnothing further is required. The contract was
to have been signed three days since; we shall find it all ready, and
can sign it today.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the mourning?ГўВҖВқ said Franz, hesitating.

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt be uneasy on that score,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort; ГўВҖВңno ceremony will
be neglected in my house. Mademoiselle de Villefort may retire during
the prescribed three months to her estate of Saint-MГғВ©ran; I say hers,
for she inherits it today. There, after a few days, if you like, the
civil marriage shall be celebrated without pomp or ceremony. Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran wished her daughter should be married there. When that is
over, you, sir, can return to Paris, while your wife passes the time of
her mourning with her mother-in-law.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs you please, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Franz.

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ replied M. de Villefort, ГўВҖВңhave the kindness to wait half an
hour; Valentine shall come down into the drawing-room. I will send for
M. Deschamps; we will read and sign the contract before we separate,
and this evening Madame de Villefort shall accompany Valentine to her
estate, where we will rejoin them in a week.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңI have one request to make.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI wish Albert de Morcerf and Raoul de ChГғВўteau-Renaud to be present at
this signature; you know they are my witnesses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHalf an hour will suffice to apprise them; will you go for them
yourself, or shall you send?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI prefer going, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall expect you, then, in half an hour, baron, and Valentine will
be ready.ГўВҖВқ

Franz bowed and left the room. Scarcely had the door closed, when M. de
Villefort sent to tell Valentine to be ready in the drawing-room in
half an hour, as he expected the notary and M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay and his
witnesses. The news caused a great sensation throughout the house;
Madame de Villefort would not believe it, and Valentine was
thunderstruck. She looked around for help, and would have gone down to
her grandfatherГўВҖВҷs room, but on the stairs she met M. de Villefort, who
took her arm and led her into the drawing-room. In the anteroom,
Valentine met Barrois, and looked despairingly at the old servant. A
moment later, Madame de Villefort entered the drawing-room with her
little Edward. It was evident that she had shared the grief of the
family, for she was pale and looked fatigued. She sat down, took Edward
on her knees, and from time to time pressed this child, on whom her
affections appeared centred, almost convulsively to her bosom.

Two carriages were soon heard to enter the courtyard. One was the
notaryГўВҖВҷs; the other, that of Franz and his friends. In a moment the
whole party was assembled. Valentine was so pale one might trace the
blue veins from her temples, round her eyes and down her cheeks. Franz
was deeply affected. ChГғВўteau-Renaud and Albert looked at each other
with amazement; the ceremony which was just concluded had not appeared
more sorrowful than did that which was about to begin. Madame de
Villefort had placed herself in the shadow behind a velvet curtain, and
as she constantly bent over her child, it was difficult to read the
expression of her face. M. de Villefort was, as usual, unmoved.

The notary, after having, according to the customary method, arranged
the papers on the table, taken his place in an armchair, and raised his
spectacles, turned towards Franz:

ГўВҖВңAre you M. Franz de Quesnel, baron dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ asked he, although he
knew it perfectly.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Franz. The notary bowed.

ГўВҖВңI have, then, to inform you, sir, at the request of M. de Villefort,
that your projected marriage with Mademoiselle de Villefort has changed
the feeling of M. Noirtier towards his grandchild, and that he
disinherits her entirely of the fortune he would have left her. Let me
hasten to add,ГўВҖВқ continued he, ГўВҖВңthat the testator, having only the right
to alienate a part of his fortune, and having alienated it all, the
will will not bear scrutiny, and is declared null and void.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңbut I warn M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, that during my
life-time my fatherГўВҖВҷs will shall never be questioned, my position
forbidding any doubt to be entertained.ГўВҖВқ

40032m



ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңI regret much that such a question has been raised
in the presence of Mademoiselle Valentine; I have never inquired the
amount of her fortune, which, however limited it may be, exceeds mine.
My family has sought consideration in this alliance with M. de
Villefort; all I seek is happiness.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine imperceptibly thanked him, while two silent tears rolled down
her cheeks.

ГўВҖВңBesides, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, addressing himself to his future
son-in-law, ГўВҖВңexcepting the loss of a portion of your hopes, this
unexpected will need not personally wound you; M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs weakness
of mind sufficiently explains it. It is not because Mademoiselle
Valentine is going to marry you that he is angry, but because she will
marry, a union with any other would have caused him the same sorrow.
Old age is selfish, sir, and Mademoiselle de Villefort has been a
faithful companion to M. Noirtier, which she cannot be when she becomes
the Baroness dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay. My fatherГўВҖВҷs melancholy state prevents our
speaking to him on any subjects, which the weakness of his mind would
incapacitate him from understanding, and I am perfectly convinced that
at the present time, although, he knows that his granddaughter is going
to be married, M. Noirtier has even forgotten the name of his intended
grandson.ГўВҖВқ M. de Villefort had scarcely said this, when the door
opened, and Barrois appeared.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said he, in a tone strangely firm for a servant speaking
to his masters under such solemn circumstances,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңgentlemen, M. Noirtier
de Villefort wishes to speak immediately to M. Franz de Quesnel, baron
dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ He, as well as the notary, that there might be no mistake in
the person, gave all his titles to the bridegroom elect.

Villefort started, Madame de Villefort let her son slip from her knees,
Valentine rose, pale and dumb as a statue. Albert and ChГғВўteau-Renaud
exchanged a second look, more full of amazement than the first. The
notary looked at Villefort.

ГўВҖВңIt is impossible,ГўВҖВқ said the procureur. ГўВҖВңM. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay cannot leave the
drawing-room at present.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is at this moment,ГўВҖВқ replied Barrois with the same firmness, ГўВҖВңthat
M. Noirtier, my master, wishes to speak on important subjects to M.
Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGrandpapa Noirtier can speak now, then,ГўВҖВқ said Edward, with his
habitual quickness. However, his remark did not make Madame de
Villefort even smile, so much was every mind engaged, and so solemn was
the situation.

ГўВҖВңTell M. Nortier,ГўВҖВқ resumed Villefort, ГўВҖВңthat what he demands is
impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, M. Nortier gives notice to these gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ replied Barrois,
ГўВҖВңthat he will give orders to be carried to the drawing-room.ГўВҖВқ

Astonishment was at its height. Something like a smile was perceptible
on Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs countenance. Valentine instinctively raised
her eyes, as if to thank heaven.

ГўВҖВңPray go, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said; M. de Villefort, ГўВҖВңand see what this new
fancy of your grandfatherГўВҖВҷs is.ГўВҖВқ Valentine rose quickly, and was
hastening joyfully towards the door, when M. de Villefort altered his
intention.

ГўВҖВңStop,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңI will go with you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, ГўВҖВңsince M. Noirtier sent for me, I am
ready to attend to his wish; besides, I shall be happy to pay my
respects to him, not having yet had the honor of doing so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort with marked uneasiness, ГўВҖВңdo not disturb
yourself.ГўВҖВқ

40032m



ГўВҖВңForgive me, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Franz in a resolute tone. ГўВҖВңI would not lose
this opportunity of proving to M. Noirtier how wrong it would be of him
to encourage feelings of dislike to me, which I am determined to
conquer, whatever they may be, by my devotion.ГўВҖВқ

And without listening to Villefort he arose, and followed Valentine,
who was running downstairs with the joy of a shipwrecked mariner who
finds a rock to cling to. M. de Villefort followed them. ChГғВўteau-Renaud
and Morcerf exchanged a third look of still increasing wonder.



 Chapter 75. A Signed Statement

Noirtier was prepared to receive them, dressed in black, and installed
in his armchair. When the three persons he expected had entered, he
looked at the door, which his valet immediately closed.

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ whispered Villefort to Valentine, who could not conceal her
joy; ГўВҖВңif M. Noirtier wishes to communicate anything which would delay
your marriage, I forbid you to understand him.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine blushed, but did not answer. Villefort, approached Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңHere is M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңyou requested to see him. We
have all wished for this interview, and I trust it will convince you
how ill-formed are your objections to ValentineГўВҖВҷs marriage.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier answered only by a look which made VillefortГўВҖВҷs blood run cold.
He motioned to Valentine to approach. In a moment, thanks to her habit
of conversing with her grandfather, she understood that he asked for a
key. Then his eye was fixed on the drawer of a small chest between the
windows. She opened the drawer, and found a key; and, understanding
that was what he wanted, again watched his eyes, which turned toward an
old secretaire which had been neglected for many years and was supposed
to contain nothing but useless documents.

ГўВҖВңShall I open the secretaire?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the old man.

ГўВҖВңAnd the drawers?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThose at the side?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe middle one?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine opened it and drew out a bundle of papers. ГўВҖВңIs that what you
wish for?ГўВҖВқ asked she.

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

She took successively all the other papers out till the drawer was
empty. ГўВҖВңBut there are no more,ГўВҖВқ said she. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye was fixed on
the dictionary.

ГўВҖВңYes, I understand, grandfather,ГўВҖВқ said the young girl.

40036m



She pointed to each letter of the alphabet. At the letter S the old man
stopped her. She opened, and found the word ГўВҖВңsecret.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! is there a secret spring?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңAnd who knows it?ГўВҖВқ Noirtier looked at the door where the servant had
gone out.

ГўВҖВңBarrois?ГўВҖВқ said she.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I call him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine went to the door, and called Barrois. VillefortГўВҖВҷs impatience
during this scene made the perspiration roll from his forehead, and
Franz was stupefied. The old servant came.

ГўВҖВңBarrois,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңmy grandfather has told me to open that
drawer in the secretaire, but there is a secret spring in it, which you
knowГўВҖВ”will you open it?ГўВҖВқ

Barrois looked at the old man. ГўВҖВңObey,ГўВҖВқ said NoirtierГўВҖВҷs intelligent eye.
Barrois touched a spring, the false bottom came out, and they saw a
bundle of papers tied with a black string.

ГўВҖВңIs that what you wish for?ГўВҖВқ said Barrois.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I give these papers to M. de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Mademoiselle Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Franz, astonished, advanced a step. ГўВҖВңTo me, sir?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Franz took them from Barrois and casting a glance at the cover, read:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTo be given, after my death, to General Durand, who shall bequeath
the packet to his son, with an injunction to preserve it as containing
an important document.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ asked Franz, ГўВҖВңwhat do you wish me to do with this paper?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo preserve it, sealed up as it is, doubtless,ГўВҖВқ said the procureur.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied Noirtier eagerly.

ГўВҖВңDo you wish him to read it?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the old man.

ГўВҖВңYou understand, baron, my grandfather wishes you to read this paper,ГўВҖВқ
said Valentine.

ГўВҖВңThen let us sit down,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort impatiently, ГўВҖВңfor it will take
some time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSit down,ГўВҖВқ said the old man. Villefort took a chair, but Valentine
remained standing by her fatherГўВҖВҷs side, and Franz before him, holding
the mysterious paper in his hand. ГўВҖВңRead,ГўВҖВқ said the old man. Franz
untied it, and in the midst of the most profound silence read:

40038m



ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳ_Extract of the report of a meeting of the Bonapartist Club in the
Rue Saint-Jacques, held February 5th, 1815_.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Franz stopped. ГўВҖВңFebruary 5th, 1815!ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңit is the day my father
was murdered.ГўВҖВқ Valentine and Villefort were dumb; the eye of the old
man alone seemed to say clearly, ГўВҖВңGo on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut it was on leaving this club,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңmy father disappeared.ГўВҖВқ

NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye continued to say, ГўВҖВңRead.ГўВҖВқ He resumed:ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe undersigned Louis-Jacques Beaurepaire, lieutenant-colonel of
artillery, ГғВүtienne Duchampy, general of brigade, and Claude Lecharpal,
keeper of woods and forests, declare, that on the 4th of February, a
letter arrived from the Island of Elba, recommending to the kindness
and the confidence of the Bonapartist Club, General Flavien de Quesnel,
who having served the emperor from 1804 to 1814 was supposed to be
devoted to the interests of the Napoleon dynasty, notwithstanding the
title of baron which Louis XVIII. had just granted to him with his
estate of ГғВүpinay.

400340m



ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳA note was in consequence addressed to General de Quesnel, begging
him to be present at the meeting next day, the 5th. The note indicated
neither the street nor the number of the house where the meeting was to
be held; it bore no signature, but it announced to the general that
someone would call for him if he would be ready at nine oГўВҖВҷclock. The
meetings were always held from that time till midnight. At nine oГўВҖВҷclock
the president of the club presented himself; the general was ready, the
president informed him that one of the conditions of his introduction
was that he should be eternally ignorant of the place of meeting, and
that he would allow his eyes to be bandaged, swearing that he would not
endeavor to take off the bandage. General de Quesnel accepted the
condition, and promised on his honor not to seek to discover the road
they took. The generalГўВҖВҷs carriage was ready, but the president told him
it was impossible for him to use it, since it was useless to blindfold
the master if the coachman knew through what streets he went. ГўВҖВңWhat
must be done then?ГўВҖВқ asked the general.ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI have my carriage here,ГўВҖВқ said
the president.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңHave you, then, so much confidence in your servant that you can
intrust him with a secret you will not allow me to know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңOur coachman is a member of the club,ГўВҖВқ said the president; ГўВҖВңwe shall
be driven by a State-Councillor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңThen we run another risk,ГўВҖВқ said the general, laughing, ГўВҖВңthat of
being upset.ГўВҖВқ We insert this joke to prove that the general was not in
the least compelled to attend the meeting, but that he came willingly.
When they were seated in the carriage the president reminded the
general of his promise to allow his eyes to be bandaged, to which he
made no opposition. On the road the president thought he saw the
general make an attempt to remove the handkerchief, and reminded him of
his oath. ГўВҖВңSure enough,ГўВҖВқ said the general. The carriage stopped at an
alley leading out of the Rue Saint-Jacques. The general alighted,
leaning on the arm of the president, of whose dignity he was not aware,
considering him simply as a member of the club; they went through the
alley, mounted a flight of stairs, and entered the assembly-room.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe deliberations had already begun. The members, apprised of the
sort of presentation which was to be made that evening, were all in
attendance. When in the middle of the room the general was invited to
remove his bandage, he did so immediately, and was surprised to see so
many well-known faces in a society of whose existence he had till then
been ignorant. They questioned him as to his sentiments, but he
contented himself with answering, that the letters from the Island of
Elba ought to have informed themГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Franz interrupted himself by saying, ГўВҖВңMy father was a royalist; they
need not have asked his sentiments, which were well known.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd hence,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңarose my affection for your father, my
dear M. Franz. Opinions held in common are a ready bond of union.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRead again,ГўВҖВқ said the old man.

Franz continued:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe president then sought to make him speak more explicitly, but M.
de Quesnel replied that he wished first to know what they wanted with
him. He was then informed of the contents of the letter from the Island
of Elba, in which he was recommended to the club as a man who would be
likely to advance the interests of their party. One paragraph spoke of
the return of Bonaparte and promised another letter and further
details, on the arrival of the _Pharaon_ belonging to the shipbuilder
Morrel, of Marseilles, whose captain was entirely devoted to the
emperor. During all this time, the general, on whom they thought to
have relied as on a brother, manifested evidently signs of discontent
and repugnance. When the reading was finished, he remained silent, with
knitted brows.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ asked the president, ГўВҖВңwhat do you say to this letter,
general?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңI say that it is too soon after declaring myself for Louis XVIII. to
break my vow in behalf of the ex-emperor.ГўВҖВқ This answer was too clear to
permit of any mistake as to his sentiments. ГўВҖВңGeneral,ГўВҖВқ said the
president, ГўВҖВңwe acknowledge no King Louis XVIII., or an ex-emperor, but
his majesty the emperor and king, driven from France, which is his
kingdom, by violence and treason.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңExcuse me, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said the general; ГўВҖВңyou may not acknowledge
Louis XVIII., but I do, as he has made me a baron and a field-marshal,
and I shall never forget that for these two titles I am indebted to his
happy return to France.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said the president, rising with gravity, ГўВҖВңbe careful what you
say; your words clearly show us that they are deceived concerning you
in the Island of Elba, and have deceived us! The communication has been
made to you in consequence of the confidence placed in you, and which
does you honor. Now we discover our error; a title and promotion attach
you to the government we wish to overturn. We will not constrain you to
help us; we enroll no one against his conscience, but we will compel
you to act generously, even if you are not disposed to do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңYou would call acting generously, knowing your conspiracy and not
informing against you, that is what I should call becoming your
accomplice. You see I am more candid than you.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, my father!ГўВҖВқ said Franz, interrupting himself. ГўВҖВңI understand now
why they murdered him.ГўВҖВқ Valentine could not help casting one glance
towards the young man, whose filial enthusiasm it was delightful to
behold. Villefort walked to and fro behind them. Noirtier watched the
expression of each one, and preserved his dignified and commanding
attitude. Franz returned to the manuscript, and continued:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said the president, ГўВҖВңyou have been invited to join this
assemblyГўВҖВ”you were not forced here; it was proposed to you to come
blindfoldedГўВҖВ”you accepted. When you complied with this twofold request
you well knew we did not wish to secure the throne of Louis XVIII., or
we should not take so much care to avoid the vigilance of the police.
It would be conceding too much to allow you to put on a mask to aid you
in the discovery of our secret, and then to remove it that you may ruin
those who have confided in you. No, no, you must first say if you
declare yourself for the king of a day who now reigns, or for his
majesty the emperor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңI am a royalist,ГўВҖВқ replied the general; ГўВҖВңI have taken the oath of
allegiance to Louis XVIII., and I will adhere to it.ГўВҖВқ These words were
followed by a general murmur, and it was evident that several of the
members were discussing the propriety of making the general repent of
his rashness.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe president again arose, and having imposed silence, said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңSir,
you are too serious and too sensible a man not to understand the
consequences of our present situation, and your candor has already
dictated to us the conditions which remain for us to offer you.ГўВҖВқ The
general, putting his hand on his sword, exclaimed,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңIf you talk of
honor, do not begin by disavowing its laws, and impose nothing by
violence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңAnd you, sir,ГўВҖВқ continued the president, with a calmness still more
terrible than the generalГўВҖВҷs anger, ГўВҖВңI advise you not to touch your
sword.ГўВҖВқ The general looked around him with slight uneasiness; however
he did not yield, but calling up all his fortitude, said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI will not
swear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңThen you must die,ГўВҖВқ replied the president calmly. M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay became
very pale; he looked round him a second time, several members of the
club were whispering, and getting their arms from under their cloaks.
ГўВҖВңGeneral,ГўВҖВқ said the president, ГўВҖВңdo not alarm yourself; you are among
men of honor who will use every means to convince you before resorting
to the last extremity, but as you have said, you are among
conspirators, you are in possession of our secret, and you must restore
it to us.ГўВҖВқ A significant silence followed these words, and as the
general did not reply,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңClose the doors,ГўВҖВқ said the president to the
door-keeper.

40042m



ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe same deadly silence succeeded these words. Then the general
advanced, and making a violent effort to control his feelings,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI have
a son,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңand I ought to think of him, finding myself among
assassins.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңGeneral,ГўВҖВқ said the chief of the assembly, ГўВҖВңone man may insult
fiftyГўВҖВ”it is the privilege of weakness. But he does wrong to use his
privilege. Follow my advice, swear, and do not insult.ГўВҖВқ The general,
again daunted by the superiority of the chief, hesitated a moment; then
advancing to the presidentГўВҖВҷs desk,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңWhat is the form, said he.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңIt is this:ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳI swear by my honor not to reveal to anyone what I have
seen and heard on the 5th of February, 1815, between nine and ten
oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening; and I plead guilty of death should I ever
violate this oath.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ The general appeared to be affected by a nervous
tremor, which prevented his answering for some moments; then,
overcoming his manifest repugnance, he pronounced the required oath,
but in so low a tone as to be scarcely audible to the majority of the
members, who insisted on his repeating it clearly and distinctly, which
he did.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңNow am I at liberty to retire?ГўВҖВқ said the general. The president
rose, appointed three members to accompany him, and got into the
carriage with the general after bandaging his eyes. One of those three
members was the coachman who had driven them there. The other members
silently dispersed. ГўВҖВңWhere do you wish to be taken?ГўВҖВқ asked the
president.ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңAnywhere out of your presence,ГўВҖВқ replied M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.
ГўВҖВңBeware, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the president, ГўВҖВңyou are no longer in the
assembly, and have only to do with individuals; do not insult them
unless you wish to be held responsible.ГўВҖВқ But instead of listening, M.
dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay went on,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңYou are still as brave in your carriage as in your
assembly because you are still four against one.ГўВҖВқ The president stopped
the coach. They were at that part of the Quai des Ormes where the steps
lead down to the river. ГўВҖВңWhy do you stop here?ГўВҖВқ asked dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңBecause, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the president, ГўВҖВңyou have insulted a man, and
that man will not go one step farther without demanding honorable
reparation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңAnother method of assassination?ГўВҖВқ said the general, shrugging his
shoulders.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳГўВҖВңMake no noise, sir, unless you wish me to consider you as one of the
men of whom you spoke just now as cowards, who take their weakness for
a shield. You are alone, one alone shall answer you; you have a sword
by your side, I have one in my cane; you have no witness, one of these
gentlemen will serve you. Now, if you please, remove your bandage.ГўВҖВқ The
general tore the handkerchief from his eyes. ГўВҖВңAt last,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI
shall know with whom I have to do.ГўВҖВқ They opened the door and the four
men alighted.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Franz again interrupted himself, and wiped the cold drops from his
brow; there was something awful in hearing the son read aloud in
trembling pallor these details of his fatherГўВҖВҷs death, which had
hitherto been a mystery. Valentine clasped her hands as if in prayer.
Noirtier looked at Villefort with an almost sublime expression of
contempt and pride.

Franz continued:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIt was, as we said, the fifth of February. For three days the mercury
had been five or six degrees below freezing and the steps were covered
with ice. The general was stout and tall, the president offered him the
side of the railing to assist him in getting down. The two witnesses
followed. It was a dark night. The ground from the steps to the river
was covered with snow and hoarfrost, the water of the river looked
black and deep. One of the seconds went for a lantern in a coal-barge
near, and by its light they examined the weapons. The presidentГўВҖВҷs
sword, which was simply, as he had said, one he carried in his cane,
was five inches shorter than the generalГўВҖВҷs, and had no guard. The
general proposed to cast lots for the swords, but the president said it
was he who had given the provocation, and when he had given it he had
supposed each would use his own arms. The witnesses endeavored to
insist, but the president bade them be silent. The lantern was placed
on the ground, the two adversaries took their stations, and the duel
began. The light made the two swords appear like flashes of lightning;
as for the men, they were scarcely perceptible, the darkness was so
great.

40044m



ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳGeneral dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay passed for one of the best swordsmen in the army,
but he was pressed so closely in the onset that he missed his aim and
fell. The witnesses thought he was dead, but his adversary, who knew he
had not struck him, offered him the assistance of his hand to rise. The
circumstance irritated instead of calming the general, and he rushed on
his adversary. But his opponent did not allow his guard to be broken.
He received him on his sword and three times the general drew back on
finding himself too closely engaged, and then returned to the charge.
At the third he fell again. They thought he slipped, as at first, and
the witnesses, seeing he did not move, approached and endeavored to
raise him, but the one who passed his arm around the body found it was
moistened with blood. The general, who had almost fainted, revived.
ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthey have sent some fencing-master to fight with me.ГўВҖВқ
The president, without answering, approached the witness who held the
lantern, and raising his sleeve, showed him two wounds he had received
in his arm; then opening his coat, and unbuttoning his waistcoat,
displayed his side, pierced with a third wound. Still he had not even
uttered a sigh. General dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay died five minutes after.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Franz read these last words in a voice so choked that they were hardly
audible, and then stopped, passing his hand over his eyes as if to
dispel a cloud; but after a momentГўВҖВҷs silence, he continued:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThe president went up the steps, after pushing his sword into his
cane; a track of blood on the snow marked his course. He had scarcely
arrived at the top when he heard a heavy splash in the waterГўВҖВ”it was the
generalГўВҖВҷs body, which the witnesses had just thrown into the river
after ascertaining that he was dead. The general fell, then, in a loyal
duel, and not in ambush as it might have been reported. In proof of
this we have signed this paper to establish the truth of the facts,
lest the moment should arrive when either of the actors in this
terrible scene should be accused of premeditated murder or of
infringement of the laws of honor.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳSigned, Beaurepaire, Duchampy, and Lecharpal.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

When Franz had finished reading this account, so dreadful for a son;
when Valentine, pale with emotion, had wiped away a tear; when
Villefort, trembling, and crouched in a corner, had endeavored to
lessen the storm by supplicating glances at the implacable old man,ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay to Noirtier, ГўВҖВңsince you are well acquainted with
all these details, which are attested by honorable signatures,ГўВҖВ”since
you appear to take some interest in me, although you have only
manifested it hitherto by causing me sorrow, refuse me not one final
satisfactionГўВҖВ”tell me the name of the president of the club, that I may
at least know who killed my father.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort mechanically felt for the handle of the door; Valentine, who
understood sooner than anyone her grandfatherГўВҖВҷs answer, and who had
often seen two scars upon his right arm, drew back a few steps.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ said Franz, turning towards Valentine, ГўВҖВңunite your
efforts with mine to find out the name of the man who made me an orphan
at two years of age.ГўВҖВқ Valentine remained dumb and motionless.

ГўВҖВңHold, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңdo not prolong this dreadful scene. The
names have been purposely concealed; my father himself does not know
who this president was, and if he knows, he cannot tell you; proper
names are not in the dictionary.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, misery,ГўВҖВқ cried Franz: ГўВҖВңthe only hope which sustained me and
enabled me to read to the end was that of knowing, at least, the name
of him who killed my father! Sir, sir,ГўВҖВқ cried he, turning to Noirtier,
ГўВҖВңdo what you canГўВҖВ”make me understand in some way!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңOh, mademoiselle, mademoiselle!ГўВҖВқ cried Franz, ГўВҖВңyour grandfather says
he can indicate the person. Help me,ГўВҖВ”lend me your assistance!ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier looked at the dictionary. Franz took it with a nervous
trembling, and repeated the letters of the alphabet successively, until
he came to M. At that letter the old man signified ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM,ГўВҖВқ repeated Franz. The young manГўВҖВҷs finger, glided over the words, but
at each one Noirtier answered by a negative sign. Valentine hid her
head between her hands. At length, Franz arrived at the word MYSELF.

40046m



ГўВҖВңYes!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou!ГўВҖВқ cried Franz, whose hair stood on end; ГўВҖВңyou, M. NoirtierГўВҖВ”you
killed my father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes!ГўВҖВқ replied Noirtier, fixing a majestic look on the young man. Franz
fell powerless on a chair; Villefort opened the door and escaped, for
the idea had entered his mind to stifle the little remaining life in
the heart of this terrible old man.




 Chapter 76. Progress of Cavalcanti the Younger

Meanwhile M. Cavalcanti the elder had returned to his service, not in
the army of his majesty the Emperor of Austria, but at the gaming-table
of the baths of Lucca, of which he was one of the most assiduous
courtiers. He had spent every farthing that had been allowed for his
journey as a reward for the majestic and solemn manner in which he had
maintained his assumed character of father.

M. Andrea at his departure inherited all the papers which proved that
he had indeed the honor of being the son of the Marquis Bartolomeo and
the Marchioness Oliva Corsinari. He was now fairly launched in that
Parisian society which gives such ready access to foreigners, and
treats them, not as they really are, but as they wish to be considered.
Besides, what is required of a young man in Paris? To speak its
language tolerably, to make a good appearance, to be a good gamester,
and to pay in cash. They are certainly less particular with a foreigner
than with a Frenchman. Andrea had, then, in a fortnight, attained a
very fair position. He was called count, he was said to possess 50,000
livres per annum; and his fatherГўВҖВҷs immense riches, buried in the
quarries of Saravezza, were a constant theme. A learned man, before
whom the last circumstance was mentioned as a fact, declared he had
seen the quarries in question, which gave great weight to assertions
hitherto somewhat doubtful, but which now assumed the garb of reality.

Such was the state of society in Paris at the period we bring before
our readers, when Monte Cristo went one evening to pay M. Danglars a
visit. M. Danglars was out, but the count was asked to go and see the
baroness, and he accepted the invitation. It was never without a
nervous shudder, since the dinner at Auteuil, and the events which
followed it, that Madame Danglars heard Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs name announced.
If he did not come, the painful sensation became most intense; if, on
the contrary, he appeared, his noble countenance, his brilliant eyes,
his amiability, his polite attention even towards Madame Danglars, soon
dispelled every impression of fear. It appeared impossible to the
baroness that a man of such delightfully pleasing manners should
entertain evil designs against her; besides, the most corrupt minds
only suspect evil when it would answer some interested endГўВҖВ”useless
injury is repugnant to every mind.

40048m



When Monte Cristo entered the boudoir, to which we have already once
introduced our readers, and where the baroness was examining some
drawings, which her daughter passed to her after having looked at them
with M. Cavalcanti, his presence soon produced its usual effect, and it
was with smiles that the baroness received the count, although she had
been a little disconcerted at the announcement of his name. The latter
took in the whole scene at a glance.

The baroness was partially reclining on a sofa, EugГғВ©nie sat near her,
and Cavalcanti was standing. Cavalcanti, dressed in black, like one of
GoetheГўВҖВҷs heroes, with varnished shoes and white silk open-worked
stockings, passed a white and tolerably nice-looking hand through his
light hair, and so displayed a sparkling diamond, that in spite of
Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs advice the vain young man had been unable to resist
putting on his little finger. This movement was accompanied by killing
glances at Mademoiselle Danglars, and by sighs launched in the same
direction.

Mademoiselle Danglars was still the sameГўВҖВ”cold, beautiful, and
satirical. Not one of these glances, nor one sigh, was lost on her;
they might have been said to fall on the shield of Minerva, which some
philosophers assert protected sometimes the breast of Sappho. EugГғВ©nie
bowed coldly to the count, and availed herself of the first moment when
the conversation became earnest to escape to her study, whence very
soon two cheerful and noisy voices being heard in connection with
occasional notes of the piano assured Monte Cristo that Mademoiselle
Danglars preferred to his society and to that of M. Cavalcanti the
company of Mademoiselle Louise dГўВҖВҷArmilly, her singing teacher.

It was then, especially while conversing with Madame Danglars, and
apparently absorbed by the charm of the conversation, that the count
noticed M. Andrea CavalcantiГўВҖВҷs solicitude, his manner of listening to
the music at the door he dared not pass, and of manifesting his
admiration.

The banker soon returned. His first look was certainly directed towards
Monte Cristo, but the second was for Andrea. As for his wife, he bowed
to her, as some husbands do to their wives, but in a way that bachelors
will never comprehend, until a very extensive code is published on
conjugal life.

ГўВҖВңHave not the ladies invited you to join them at the piano?ГўВҖВқ said
Danglars to Andrea.

ГўВҖВңAlas, no, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea with a sigh, still more remarkable than
the former ones. Danglars immediately advanced towards the door and
opened it.

40050m



The two young ladies were seen seated on the same chair, at the piano,
accompanying themselves, each with one hand, a fancy to which they had
accustomed themselves, and performed admirably. Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly,
whom they then perceived through the open doorway, formed with EugГғВ©nie
one of the _tableaux vivants_ of which the Germans are so fond. She was
somewhat beautiful, and exquisitely formedГўВҖВ”a little fairy-like figure,
with large curls falling on her neck, which was rather too long, as
Perugino sometimes makes his Virgins, and her eyes dull from fatigue.
She was said to have a weak chest, and like Antonia in the _Cremona
Violin_, she would die one day while singing.

Monte Cristo cast one rapid and curious glance round this sanctum; it
was the first time he had ever seen Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly, of whom he
had heard much.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the banker to his daughter, ГўВҖВңare we then all to be
excluded?ГўВҖВқ

He then led the young man into the study, and either by chance or
manГ…В“uvre the door was partially closed after Andrea, so that from the
place where they sat neither the Count nor the baroness could see
anything; but as the banker had accompanied Andrea, Madame Danglars
appeared to take no notice of it.

The count soon heard AndreaГўВҖВҷs voice, singing a Corsican song,
accompanied by the piano. While the count smiled at hearing this song,
which made him lose sight of Andrea in the recollection of Benedetto,
Madame Danglars was boasting to Monte Cristo of her husbandГўВҖВҷs strength
of mind, who that very morning had lost three or four hundred thousand
francs by a failure at Milan. The praise was well deserved, for had not
the count heard it from the baroness, or by one of those means by which
he knew everything, the baronГўВҖВҷs countenance would not have led him to
suspect it.

ГўВҖВңHem,ГўВҖВқ thought Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңhe begins to conceal his losses; a month
since he boasted of them.ГўВҖВқ

Then aloud,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңOh, madame, M. Danglars is so skilful, he will soon regain
at the Bourse what he loses elsewhere.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI see that you participate in a prevalent error,ГўВҖВқ said Madame
Danglars.

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңThat M. Danglars speculates, whereas he never does.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTruly, madame, I recollect M. Debray told meГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”apropos, what has become
of him? I have seen nothing of him the last three or four days.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNor I,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars; ГўВҖВңbut you began a sentence, sir, and did
not finish.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Debray had told youГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes; he told me it was you who sacrificed to the demon of
speculation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was once very fond of it, but I do not indulge now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you are wrong, madame. Fortune is precarious; and if I were a
woman and fate had made me a bankerГўВҖВҷs wife, whatever might be my
confidence in my husbandГўВҖВҷs good fortune, still in speculation you know
there is great risk. Well, I would secure for myself a fortune
independent of him, even if I acquired it by placing my interests in
hands unknown to him.ГўВҖВқ Madame Danglars blushed, in spite of all her
efforts.

ГўВҖВңStay,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, as though he had not observed her confusion,
ГўВҖВңI have heard of a lucky hit that was made yesterday on the Neapolitan
bonds.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have noneГўВҖВ”nor have I ever possessed any; but really we have talked
long enough of money, count, we are like two stockbrokers; have you
heard how fate is persecuting the poor Villeforts?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat has happened?ГўВҖВқ said the count, simulating total ignorance.

ГўВҖВңYou know the Marquis of Saint-MГғВ©ran died a few days after he had set
out on his journey to Paris, and the marchioness a few days after her
arrival?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI have heard that; but, as Claudius said to
Hamlet, ГўВҖВҳit is a law of nature; their fathers died before them, and
they mourned their loss; they will die before their children, who will,
in their turn, grieve for them.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut that is not all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot all!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; they were going to marry their daughterГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay. Is it broken off?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYesterday morning, it appears, Franz declined the honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed? And is the reason known?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow extraordinary! And how does M. de Villefort bear it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs usual. Like a philosopher.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars returned at this moment alone.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, ГўВҖВңdo you leave M. Cavalcanti with your
daughter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly,ГўВҖВқ said the banker; ГўВҖВңdo you consider her no
one?ГўВҖВқ Then, turning to Monte Cristo, he said, ГўВҖВңPrince Cavalcanti is a
charming young man, is he not? But is he really a prince?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will not answer for it,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңHis father was
introduced to me as a marquis, so he ought to be a count; but I do not
think he has much claim to that title.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ said the banker. ГўВҖВңIf he is a prince, he is wrong not to maintain
his rank; I do not like anyone to deny his origin.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you are a thorough democrat,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, smiling.

ГўВҖВңBut do you see to what you are exposing yourself?ГўВҖВқ said the baroness.
ГўВҖВңIf, perchance, M. de Morcerf came, he would find M. Cavalcanti in that
room, where he, the betrothed of EugГғВ©nie, has never been admitted.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou may well say, perchance,ГўВҖВқ replied the banker; ГўВҖВңfor he comes so
seldom, it would seem only chance that brings him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut should he come and find that young man with your daughter, he
might be displeased.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe? You are mistaken. M. Albert would not do us the honor to be
jealous; he does not like EugГғВ©nie sufficiently. Besides, I care not for
his displeasure.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, situated as we areГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, do you know how we are situated? At his motherГўВҖВҷs ball he danced
once with EugГғВ©nie, and M. Cavalcanti three times, and he took no notice
of it.ГўВҖВқ

The valet announced the Vicomte Albert de Morcerf. The baroness rose
hastily, and was going into the study, when Danglars stopped her.

ГўВҖВңLet her alone,ГўВҖВқ said he.

She looked at him in amazement. Monte Cristo appeared to be unconscious
of what passed. Albert entered, looking very handsome and in high
spirits. He bowed politely to the baroness, familiarly to Danglars, and
affectionately to Monte Cristo. Then turning to the baroness: ГўВҖВңMay I
ask how Mademoiselle Danglars is?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңShe is quite well,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars quickly; ГўВҖВңshe is at the piano
with M. Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

Albert retained his calm and indifferent manner; he might feel perhaps
annoyed, but he knew Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs eye was on him. ГўВҖВңM. Cavalcanti has
a fine tenor voice,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңand Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie a splendid
soprano, and then she plays the piano like Thalberg. The concert must
be a delightful one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey suit each other remarkably well,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars. Albert appeared
not to notice this remark, which was, however, so rude that Madame
Danglars blushed.

ГўВҖВңI, too,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңam a musicianГўВҖВ”at least, my masters used
to tell me so; but it is strange that my voice never would suit any
other, and a soprano less than any.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars smiled, and seemed to say, ГўВҖВңIt is of no consequence.ГўВҖВқ Then,
hoping doubtless to effect his purpose, he said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңThe prince and my
daughter were universally admired yesterday. You were not of the party,
M. de Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat prince?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert.

ГўВҖВңPrince Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, who persisted in giving the young
man that title.

ГўВҖВңPardon me,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI was not aware that he was a prince. And
Prince Cavalcanti sang with Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie yesterday? It must
have been charming, indeed. I regret not having heard them. But I was
unable to accept your invitation, having promised to accompany my
mother to a German concert given by the Baroness of ChГғВўteau-Renaud.ГўВҖВқ

This was followed by rather an awkward silence.

ГўВҖВңMay I also be allowed,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңto pay my respects to
Mademoiselle Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait a moment,ГўВҖВқ said the banker, stopping the young man; ГўВҖВңdo you hear
that delightful cavatina? Ta, ta, ta, ti, ta, ti, ta, ta; it is
charming, let them finishГўВҖВ”one moment. Bravo, bravi, brava!ГўВҖВқ The banker
was enthusiastic in his applause.

40054m



ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңit is exquisite; it is impossible to understand
the music of his country better than Prince Cavalcanti does. You said
prince, did you not? But he can easily become one, if he is not
already; it is no uncommon thing in Italy. But to return to the
charming musiciansГўВҖВ”you should give us a treat, Danglars, without
telling them there is a stranger. Ask them to sing one more song; it is
so delightful to hear music in the distance, when the musicians are
unrestrained by observation.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars was quite annoyed by the young manГўВҖВҷs indifference. He took
Monte Cristo aside.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you think of our lover?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңHe appears cool. But, then your word is given.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, doubtless I have promised to give my daughter to a man who loves
her, but not to one who does not. See him there, cold as marble and
proud like his father. If he were rich, if he had CavalcantiГўВҖВҷs fortune,
that might be pardoned. _Ma foi_, I havenГўВҖВҷt consulted my daughter; but
if she has good tasteГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңmy fondness may blind me, but I assure you I
consider Morcerf a charming young man who will render your daughter
happy and will sooner or later attain a certain amount of distinction,
and his fatherГўВҖВҷs position is good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHem,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңWhy do you doubt?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe pastГўВҖВ”that obscurity on the past.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut that does not affect the son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery true.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, I beg of you, donГўВҖВҷt go off your head. ItГўВҖВҷs a month now that you
have been thinking of this marriage, and you must see that it throws
some responsibility on me, for it was at my house you met this young
Cavalcanti, whom I do not really know at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you made inquiry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs there any need of that! Does not his appearance speak for him? And
he is very rich.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am not so sure of that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd yet you said he had money.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFifty thousand livresГўВҖВ”a mere trifle.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is well educated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHem,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo in his turn.

ГўВҖВңHe is a musician.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo are all Italians.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, count, you do not do that young man justice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I acknowledge it annoys me, knowing your connection with the
Morcerf family, to see him throw himself in the way.ГўВҖВқ Danglars burst
out laughing.

ГўВҖВңWhat a Puritan you are!ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңthat happens every day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you cannot break it off in this way; the Morcerfs are depending on
this union.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPositively.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen let them explain themselves; you should give the father a hint,
you are so intimate with the family.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВ”where the devil did you find out that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt their ball; it was apparent enough. Why, did not the countess, the
proud MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, the disdainful Catalane, who will scarcely open her
lips to her oldest acquaintances, take your arm, lead you into the
garden, into the private walks, and remain there for half an hour?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, baron, baron,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңyou are not listeningГўВҖВ”what barbarism
in a megalomaniac like you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, donГўВҖВҷt worry about me, Sir Mocker,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; then turning to
Monte Cristo he said:

ГўВҖВңBut will you undertake to speak to the father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWillingly, if you wish it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut let it be done explicitly and positively. If he demands my
daughter let him fix the dayГўВҖВ”declare his conditions; in short, let us
either understand each other, or quarrel. You understandГўВҖВ”no more
delay.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir, I will give my attention to the subject.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not say that I await with pleasure his decision, but I do await
it. A banker must, you know, be a slave to his promise.ГўВҖВқ And Danglars
sighed as M. Cavalcanti had done half an hour before.

ГўВҖВңBravi! bravo! brava!ГўВҖВқ cried Morcerf, parodying the banker, as the
selection came to an end. Danglars began to look suspiciously at
Morcerf, when someone came and whispered a few words to him.

ГўВҖВңI shall soon return,ГўВҖВқ said the banker to Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңwait for me. I
shall, perhaps, have something to say to you.ГўВҖВқ And he went out.

The baroness took advantage of her husbandГўВҖВҷs absence to push open the
door of her daughterГўВҖВҷs study, and M. Andrea, who was sitting before the
piano with Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie, started up like a jack-in-the-box.
Albert bowed with a smile to Mademoiselle Danglars, who did not appear
in the least disturbed, and returned his bow with her usual coolness.
Cavalcanti was evidently embarrassed; he bowed to Morcerf, who replied
with the most impertinent look possible. Then Albert launched out in
praise of Mademoiselle DanglarsГўВҖВҷ voice, and on his regret, after what
he had just heard, that he had been unable to be present the previous
evening.

Cavalcanti, being left alone, turned to Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, ГўВҖВңleave music and compliments, and let us
go and take tea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, Louise,ГўВҖВқ said Mademoiselle Danglars to her friend.

They passed into the next drawing-room, where tea was prepared. Just as
they were beginning, in the English fashion, to leave the spoons in
their cups, the door again opened and Danglars entered, visibly
agitated. Monte Cristo observed it particularly, and by a look asked
the banker for an explanation.

ГўВҖВңI have just received my courier from Greece,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңAh, yes,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңthat was the reason of your running away
from us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow is King Otho getting on?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert in the most sprightly tone.

Danglars cast another suspicious look towards him without answering,
and Monte Cristo turned away to conceal the expression of pity which
passed over his features, but which was gone in a moment.

ГўВҖВңWe shall go together, shall we not?ГўВҖВқ said Albert to the count.

ГўВҖВңIf you like,ГўВҖВқ replied the latter.

Albert could not understand the bankerГўВҖВҷs look, and turning to Monte
Cristo, who understood it perfectly,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңDid you see,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңhow he
looked at me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңbut did you think there was anything particular
in his look?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, I did; and what does he mean by his news from Greece?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow can I tell you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I imagine you have correspondents in that country.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo smiled significantly.

ГўВҖВңStop,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңhere he comes. I shall compliment Mademoiselle
Danglars on her cameo, while the father talks to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you compliment her at all, let it be on her voice, at least,ГўВҖВқ said
Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңNo, everyone would do that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear viscount, you are dreadfully impertinent.ГўВҖВқ

Albert advanced towards EugГғВ©nie, smiling.

Meanwhile, Danglars, stooping to Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs ear, ГўВҖВңYour advice was
excellent,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңthere is a whole history connected with the names
Fernand and Yanina.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYes, I will tell you all; but take away the young man; I cannot endure
his presence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is going with me. Shall I send the father to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImmediately.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well.ГўВҖВқ The count made a sign to Albert and they bowed to the
ladies, and took their leave, Albert perfectly indifferent to
Mademoiselle DanglarsГўВҖВҷ contempt, Monte Cristo reiterating his advice to
Madame Danglars on the prudence a bankerГўВҖВҷs wife should exercise in
providing for the future.

M. Cavalcanti remained master of the field.



 Chapter 77. HaydГғВ©e

Scarcely had the countГўВҖВҷs horses cleared the angle of the boulevard,
when Albert, turning towards the count, burst into a loud fit of
laughterГўВҖВ”much too loud in fact not to give the idea of its being rather
forced and unnatural.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI will ask you the same question which Charles IX.
put to Catherine deГўВҖВҷ Medici, after the massacre of Saint Bartholomew:
ГўВҖВҳHow have I played my little part?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo what do you allude?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңTo the installation of my rival at M. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat rival?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ what rival? Why, your protГғВ©gГғВ©, M. Andrea Cavalcanti!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, no joking, viscount, if you please; I do not patronize M.
AndreaГўВҖВ”at least, not as concerns M. Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you would be to blame for not assisting him, if the young man
really needed your help in that quarter, but, happily for me, he can
dispense with it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, do you think he is paying his addresses?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am certain of it; his languishing looks and modulated tones when
addressing Mademoiselle Danglars fully proclaim his intentions. He
aspires to the hand of the proud EugГғВ©nie.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat does that signify, so long as they favor your suit?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut it is not the case, my dear count: on the contrary. I am repulsed
on all sides.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is so indeed; Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie scarcely answers me, and
Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly, her confidant, does not speak to me at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the father has the greatest regard possible for you,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo.

ГўВҖВңHe? Oh, no, he has plunged a thousand daggers into my heart,
tragedy-weapons, I own, which instead of wounding sheathe their points
in their own handles, but daggers which he nevertheless believed to be
real and deadly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJealousy indicates affection.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue; but I am not jealous.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf whom?ГўВҖВ”of Debray?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf me? I will engage to say that before a week is past the door will
be closed against me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken, my dear viscount.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProve it to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you wish me to do so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I am charged with the commission of endeavoring to induce the
Comte de Morcerf to make some definite arrangement with the baron.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy whom are you charged?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the baron himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Albert with all the cajolery of which he was capable. ГўВҖВңYou
surely will not do that, my dear count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly I shall, Albert, as I have promised to do it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, with a sigh, ГўВҖВңit seems you are determined to marry
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am determined to try and be on good terms with everybody, at all
events,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңBut apropos of Debray, how is it that I
have not seen him lately at the baronГўВҖВҷs house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere has been a misunderstanding.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, with the baroness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, with the baron.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas he perceived anything?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is a good joke!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think he suspects?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with charming
artlessness.

ГўВҖВңWhere have you come from, my dear count?ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңFrom Congo, if you will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt must be farther off than even that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what do I know of your Parisian husbands?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, my dear count, husbands are pretty much the same everywhere; an
individual husband of any country is a pretty fair specimen of the
whole race.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut then, what can have led to the quarrel between Danglars and
Debray? They seemed to understand each other so well,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo with renewed energy.

ГўВҖВңAh, now you are trying to penetrate into the mysteries of Isis, in
which I am not initiated. When M. Andrea Cavalcanti has become one of
the family, you can ask him that question.ГўВҖВқ

The carriage stopped.

ГўВҖВңHere we are,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңit is only half-past ten oГўВҖВҷclock,
come in.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, I will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy carriage shall take you back.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, thank you; I gave orders for my _coupГғВ©_ to follow me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere it is, then,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, as he stepped out of the
carriage. They both went into the house; the drawing-room was lighted
upГўВҖВ”they went in there. ГўВҖВңYou will make tea for us, Baptistin,ГўВҖВқ said the
count. Baptistin left the room without waiting to answer, and in two
seconds reappeared, bringing on a tray, all that his master had
ordered, ready prepared, and appearing to have sprung from the ground,
like the repasts which we read of in fairy tales.

ГўВҖВңReally, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңwhat I admire in you is, not so
much your riches, for perhaps there are people even wealthier than
yourself, nor is it only your wit, for Beaumarchais might have
possessed as much,ГўВҖВ”but it is your manner of being served, without any
questions, in a moment, in a second; it is as if they guessed what you
wanted by your manner of ringing, and made a point of keeping
everything you can possibly desire in constant readiness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat you say is perhaps true; they know my habits. For instance, you
shall see; how do you wish to occupy yourself during tea-time?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, I should like to smoke.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo took the gong and struck it once. In about the space of a
second a private door opened, and Ali appeared, bringing two chibouques
filled with excellent latakia.

ГўВҖВңIt is quite wonderful,ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңOh no, it is as simple as possible,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңAli knows
I generally smoke while I am taking my tea or coffee; he has heard that
I ordered tea, and he also knows that I brought you home with me; when
I summoned him he naturally guessed the reason of my doing so, and as
he comes from a country where hospitality is especially manifested
through the medium of smoking, he naturally concludes that we shall
smoke in company, and therefore brings two chibouques instead of
oneГўВҖВ”and now the mystery is solved.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly you give a most commonplace air to your explanation, but it
is not the less true that youГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”Ah, but what do I hear?ГўВҖВқ and Morcerf
inclined his head towards the door, through which sounds seemed to
issue resembling those of a guitar.

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, my dear viscount, you are fated to hear music this evening;
you have only escaped from Mademoiselle DanglarsГўВҖВҷ piano, to be attacked
by HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs guzla.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©eГўВҖВ”what an adorable name! Are there, then, really women who bear
the name of HaydГғВ©e anywhere but in ByronГўВҖВҷs poems?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly there are. HaydГғВ©e is a very uncommon name in France, but is
common enough in Albania and Epirus; it is as if you said, for example,
Chastity, Modesty, Innocence,ГўВҖВ”it is a kind of baptismal name, as you
Parisians call it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that is charming,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңhow I should like to hear my
countrywomen called Mademoiselle Goodness, Mademoiselle Silence,
Mademoiselle Christian Charity! Only think, then, if Mademoiselle
Danglars, instead of being called Claire-Marie-EugГғВ©nie, had been named
Mademoiselle Chastity-Modesty-Innocence Danglars; what a fine effect
that would have produced on the announcement of her marriage!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңdo not joke in so loud a tone; HaydГғВ©e may hear
you, perhaps.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you think she would be angry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, certainly not,ГўВҖВқ said the count with a haughty expression.

ГўВҖВңShe is very amiable, then, is she not?ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңIt is not to be called amiability, it is her duty; a slave does not
dictate to a master.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome; you are joking yourself now. Are there any more slaves to be had
who bear this beautiful name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUndoubtedly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, count, you do nothing, and have nothing like other people. The
slave of the Count of Monte Cristo! Why, it is a rank of itself in
France, and from the way in which you lavish money, it is a place that
must be worth a hundred thousand francs a year.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA hundred thousand francs! The poor girl originally possessed much
more than that; she was born to treasures in comparison with which
those recorded in the _Thousand and One Nights_ would seem but
poverty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe must be a princess then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right; and she is one of the greatest in her country too.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thought so. But how did it happen that such a great princess became
a slave?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow was it that Dionysius the Tyrant became a schoolmaster? The
fortune of war, my dear viscount,ГўВҖВ”the caprice of fortune; that is the
way in which these things are to be accounted for.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd is her name a secret?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs regards the generality of mankind it is; but not for you, my dear
viscount, who are one of my most intimate friends, and on whose silence
I feel I may rely, if I consider it necessary to enjoin itГўВҖВ”may I not do
so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; on my word of honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know the history of the Pasha of Yanina, do you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf Ali Tepelini?13 Oh, yes; it was in his service that my father made
his fortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue, I had forgotten that.ГўВҖВқ

40062m



ГўВҖВңWell, what is HaydГғВ©e to Ali Tepelini?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMerely his daughter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? the daughter of Ali Pasha?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf Ali Pasha and the beautiful Vasiliki.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd your slave?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, yes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut how did she become so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, simply from the circumstance of my having bought her one day, as
I was passing through the market at Constantinople.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWonderful! Really, my dear count, you seem to throw a sort of magic
influence over all in which you are concerned; when I listen to you,
existence no longer seems reality, but a waking dream. Now, I am
perhaps going to make an imprudent and thoughtless request, butГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, since you go out with HaydГғВ©e, and sometimes even take her to the
OperaГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think I may venture to ask you this favor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou may venture to ask me anything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell then, my dear count, present me to your princess.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will do so; but on two conditions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI accept them at once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe first is, that you will never tell anyone that I have granted the
interview.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, extending his hand; ГўВҖВңI swear I will not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe second is, that you will not tell her that your father ever served
hers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI give you my oath that I will not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEnough, viscount; you will remember those two vows, will you not? But
I know you to be a man of honor.ГўВҖВқ

The count again struck the gong. Ali reappeared. ГўВҖВңTell HaydГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ said
he, ГўВҖВңthat I will take coffee with her, and give her to understand that
I desire permission to present one of my friends to her.ГўВҖВқ

Ali bowed and left the room.

ГўВҖВңNow, understand me,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңno direct questions, my dear
Morcerf; if you wish to know anything, tell me, and I will ask her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAgreed.ГўВҖВқ

Ali reappeared for the third time, and drew back the tapestried hanging
which concealed the door, to signify to his master and Albert that they
were at liberty to pass on.

ГўВҖВңLet us go in,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

Albert passed his hand through his hair, and curled his moustache,
then, having satisfied himself as to his personal appearance, followed
the count into the room, the latter having previously resumed his hat
and gloves. Ali was stationed as a kind of advanced guard, and the door
was kept by the three French attendants, commanded by Myrtho.

HaydГғВ©e was awaiting her visitors in the first room of her apartments,
which was the drawing-room. Her large eyes were dilated with surprise
and expectation, for it was the first time that any man, except Monte
Cristo, had been accorded an entrance into her presence. She was
sitting on a sofa placed in an angle of the room, with her legs crossed
under her in the Eastern fashion, and seemed to have made for herself,
as it were, a kind of nest in the rich Indian silks which enveloped
her. Near her was the instrument on which she had just been playing; it
was elegantly fashioned, and worthy of its mistress. On perceiving
Monte Cristo, she arose and welcomed him with a smile peculiar to
herself, expressive at once of the most implicit obedience and also of
the deepest love. Monte Cristo advanced towards her and extended his
hand, which she as usual raised to her lips.

40064m



Albert had proceeded no farther than the door, where he remained rooted
to the spot, being completely fascinated by the sight of such
surpassing beauty, beheld as it was for the first time, and of which an
inhabitant of more northern climes could form no adequate idea.

ГўВҖВңWhom do you bring?ГўВҖВқ asked the young girl in Romaic, of Monte Cristo;
ГўВҖВңis it a friend, a brother, a simple acquaintance, or an enemy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA friend,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo in the same language.

ГўВҖВңWhat is his name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount Albert; it is the same man whom I rescued from the hands of the
banditti at Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what language would you like me to converse with him?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo turned to Albert. ГўВҖВңDo you know modern Greek,ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңAlas! no,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңnor even ancient Greek, my dear count; never
had Homer or Plato a more unworthy scholar than myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e, proving by her remark that she had quite
understood Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs question and AlbertГўВҖВҷs answer, ГўВҖВңthen I will
speak either in French or Italian, if my lord so wills it.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo reflected one instant. ГўВҖВңYou will speak in Italian,ГўВҖВқ said
he.

Then, turning towards Albert,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңIt is a pity you do not understand
either ancient or modern Greek, both of which HaydГғВ©e speaks so
fluently; the poor child will be obliged to talk to you in Italian,
which will give you but a very false idea of her powers of
conversation.ГўВҖВқ

The count made a sign to HaydГғВ©e to address his visitor. ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ she said
to Morcerf, ГўВҖВңyou are most welcome as the friend of my lord and master.ГўВҖВқ
This was said in excellent Tuscan, and with that soft Roman accent
which makes the language of Dante as sonorous as that of Homer. Then,
turning to Ali, she directed him to bring coffee and pipes, and when he
had left the room to execute the orders of his young mistress she
beckoned Albert to approach nearer to her. Monte Cristo and Morcerf
drew their seats towards a small table, on which were arranged music,
drawings, and vases of flowers. Ali then entered bringing coffee and
chibouques; as to M. Baptistin, this portion of the building was
interdicted to him. Albert refused the pipe which the Nubian offered
him.

ГўВҖВңOh, take itГўВҖВ”take it,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e is almost as civilized
as a Parisian; the smell of a Havana is disagreeable to her, but the
tobacco of the East is a most delicious perfume, you know.ГўВҖВқ

Ali left the room. The cups of coffee were all prepared, with the
addition of sugar, which had been brought for Albert. Monte Cristo and
HaydГғВ©e took the beverage in the original Arabian manner, that is to
say, without sugar. HaydГғВ©e took the porcelain cup in her little slender
fingers and conveyed it to her mouth with all the innocent artlessness
of a child when eating or drinking something which it likes. At this
moment two women entered, bringing salvers filled with ices and
sherbet, which they placed on two small tables appropriated to that
purpose.

ГўВҖВңMy dear host, and you, signora,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, in Italian, ГўВҖВңexcuse my
apparent stupidity. I am quite bewildered, and it is natural that it
should be so. Here I am in the heart of Paris; but a moment ago I heard
the rumbling of the omnibuses and the tinkling of the bells of the
lemonade-sellers, and now I feel as if I were suddenly transported to
the East; not such as I have seen it, but such as my dreams have
painted it. Oh, signora, if I could but speak Greek, your conversation,
added to the fairy-scene which surrounds me, would furnish an evening
of such delight as it would be impossible for me ever to forget.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI speak sufficient Italian to enable me to converse with you, sir,ГўВҖВқ
said HaydГғВ©e quietly; ГўВҖВңand if you like what is Eastern, I will do my
best to secure the gratification of your tastes while you are here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn what subject shall I converse with her?ГўВҖВқ said Albert, in a low tone
to Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңJust what you please; you may speak of her country and of her youthful
reminiscences, or if you like it better you can talk of Rome, Naples,
or Florence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңit is of no use to be in the company of a Greek if
one converses just in the same style as with a Parisian; let me speak
to her of the East.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo so then, for of all themes which you could choose that will be the
most agreeable to her taste.ГўВҖВқ

Albert turned towards HaydГғВ©e. ГўВҖВңAt what age did you leave Greece,
signora?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңI left it when I was but five years old,ГўВҖВқ replied HaydГғВ©e.

ГўВҖВңAnd have you any recollection of your country?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen I shut my eyes and think, I seem to see it all again. The mind
can see as well as the body. The body forgets sometimes; but the mind
always remembers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how far back into the past do your recollections extend?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI could scarcely walk when my mother, who was called Vasiliki, which
means royal,ГўВҖВқ said the young girl, tossing her head proudly, ГўВҖВңtook me
by the hand, and after putting in our purse all the money we possessed,
we went out, both covered with veils, to solicit alms for the
prisoners, saying, ГўВҖВҳHe who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord.ГўВҖВҷ
Then when our purse was full we returned to the palace, and without
saying a word to my father, we sent it to the convent, where it was
divided amongst the prisoners.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how old were you at that time?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was three years old,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e.

ГўВҖВңThen you remember everything that went on about you from the time when
you were three years old?ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңEverything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, in a low tone to Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңdo allow the
signora to tell me something of her history. You prohibited my
mentioning my fatherГўВҖВҷs name to her, but perhaps she will allude to him
of her own accord in the course of the recital, and you have no idea
how delighted I should be to hear our name pronounced by such beautiful
lips.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo turned to HaydГғВ©e, and with an expression of countenance
which commanded her to pay the most implicit attention to his words, he
said in Greek, ГўВҖВңГҺВ ГҺВұГҸВ„ГҸВҒГЎВҪВёГҸВӮ ГҺВјГЎВҪВІГҺВҪ ГЎВјВ„ГҸВ„ГҺВ·ГҺВҪ ГҺВјГҺВ®ГҺВ¶ГҺВө ГҸВ„ГЎВҪВё ГЎВҪВ„ГҺВҪГҺВҝГҺВјГҺВұ ГҸВҖГҸВҒГҺВҝГҺВҙГҸВҢГҸВ„ГҺВҝГҸВ… ГҺВәГҺВұГЎВҪВ¶ ГҸВҖГҸВҒГҺВҝГҺВҙГҺВҝГҸВғГҺВҜГҺВұГҺВҪ
ГҺВөГЎВјВ°ГҸВҖГЎВҪВІ ГЎВјВЎГҺВјГЎВҝВ–ГҺВҪ,ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”that is, ГўВҖВңTell us the fate of your father; but neither the
name of the traitor nor the treason.ГўВҖВқ HaydГғВ©e sighed deeply, and a shade
of sadness clouded her beautiful brow.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you saying to her?ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf in an undertone.

ГўВҖВңI again reminded her that you were a friend, and that she need not
conceal anything from you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңthis pious pilgrimage in behalf of the prisoners
was your first remembrance; what is the next?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, then I remember as if it were but yesterday sitting under the
shade of some sycamore-trees, on the borders of a lake, in the waters
of which the trembling foliage was reflected as in a mirror. Under the
oldest and thickest of these trees, reclining on cushions, sat my
father; my mother was at his feet, and I, childlike, amused myself by
playing with his long white beard which descended to his girdle, or
with the diamond-hilt of the scimitar attached to his girdle. Then from
time to time there came to him an Albanian who said something to which
I paid no attention, but which he always answered in the same tone of
voice, either ГўВҖВҳKill,ГўВҖВҷ or ГўВҖВҳPardon.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is very strange,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңto hear such words proceed from the
mouth of anyone but an actress on the stage, and one needs constantly
to be saying to oneГўВҖВҷs self, ГўВҖВҳThis is no fiction, it is all reality,ГўВҖВҷ in
order to believe it. And how does France appear in your eyes,
accustomed as they have been to gaze on such enchanted scenes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think it is a fine country,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңbut I see France as it
really is, because I look on it with the eyes of a woman; whereas my
own country, which I can only judge of from the impression produced on
my childish mind, always seems enveloped in a vague atmosphere, which
is luminous or otherwise, according as my remembrances of it are sad or
joyous.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo young,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, forgetting at the moment the CountГўВҖВҷs command
that he should ask no questions of the slave herself, ГўВҖВңis it possible
that you can have known what suffering is except by name?ГўВҖВқ

HaydГғВ©e turned her eyes towards Monte Cristo, who, making at the same
time some imperceptible sign, murmured:

ГўВҖВңГҺВ•ГЎВјВ°ГҸВҖГҺВӯГўВҖВ”speak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing is ever so firmly impressed on the mind as the memory of our
early childhood, and with the exception of the two scenes I have just
described to you, all my earliest reminiscences are fraught with
deepest sadness.ГўВҖВқ

40068m



ГўВҖВңSpeak, speak, signora,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI am listening with the most
intense delight and interest to all you say.ГўВҖВқ

HaydГғВ©e answered his remark with a melancholy smile. ГўВҖВңYou wish me, then,
to relate the history of my past sorrows?ГўВҖВқ said she.

ГўВҖВңI beg you to do so,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert.

ГўВҖВңWell, I was but four years old when one night I was suddenly awakened
by my mother. We were in the palace of Yanina; she snatched me from the
cushions on which I was sleeping, and on opening my eyes I saw hers
filled with tears. She took me away without speaking. When I saw her
weeping I began to cry too. ГўВҖВҳHush, child!ГўВҖВҷ said she. At other times in
spite of maternal endearments or threats, I had with a childГўВҖВҷs caprice
been accustomed to indulge my feelings of sorrow or anger by crying as
much as I felt inclined; but on this occasion there was an intonation
of such extreme terror in my motherГўВҖВҷs voice when she enjoined me to
silence, that I ceased crying as soon as her command was given. She
bore me rapidly away.

ГўВҖВңI saw then that we were descending a large staircase; around us were
all my motherГўВҖВҷs servants carrying trunks, bags, ornaments, jewels,
purses of gold, with which they were hurrying away in the greatest
distraction.

ГўВҖВңBehind the women came a guard of twenty men armed with long guns and
pistols, and dressed in the costume which the Greeks have assumed since
they have again become a nation. You may imagine there was something
startling and ominous,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e, shaking her head and turning pale
at the mere remembrance of the scene, ГўВҖВңin this long file of slaves and
women only half-aroused from sleep, or at least so they appeared to me,
who was myself scarcely awake. Here and there on the walls of the
staircase, were reflected gigantic shadows, which trembled in the
flickering light of the pine-torches till they seemed to reach to the
vaulted roof above.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳQuick!ГўВҖВҷ said a voice at the end of the gallery. This voice made
everyone bow before it, resembling in its effect the wind passing over
a field of wheat, by its superior strength forcing every ear to yield
obeisance. As for me, it made me tremble. This voice was that of my
father. He came last, clothed in his splendid robes and holding in his
hand the carbine which your emperor presented him. He was leaning on
the shoulder of his favorite Selim, and he drove us all before him, as
a shepherd would his straggling flock. My father,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e, raising
her head, ГўВҖВңwas that illustrious man known in Europe under the name of
Ali Tepelini, pasha of Yanina, and before whom Turkey trembled.ГўВҖВқ

Albert, without knowing why, started on hearing these words pronounced
with such a haughty and dignified accent; it appeared to him as if
there was something supernaturally gloomy and terrible in the
expression which gleamed from the brilliant eyes of HaydГғВ©e at this
moment; she appeared like a Pythoness evoking a spectre, as she
recalled to his mind the remembrance of the fearful death of this man,
to the news of which all Europe had listened with horror.

ГўВҖВңSoon,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңwe halted on our march, and found ourselves on
the borders of a lake. My mother pressed me to her throbbing heart, and
at the distance of a few paces I saw my father, who was glancing
anxiously around. Four marble steps led down to the waterГўВҖВҷs edge, and
below them was a boat floating on the tide.

40070m



ГўВҖВңFrom where we stood I could see in the middle of the lake a large
blank mass; it was the kiosk to which we were going. This kiosk
appeared to me to be at a considerable distance, perhaps on account of
the darkness of the night, which prevented any object from being more
than partially discerned. We stepped into the boat. I remember well
that the oars made no noise whatever in striking the water, and when I
leaned over to ascertain the cause I saw that they were muffled with
the sashes of our Palikares.14 Besides the rowers, the boat contained
only the women, my father, mother, Selim, and myself. The Palikares had
remained on the shore of the lake, ready to cover our retreat; they
were kneeling on the lowest of the marble steps, and in that manner
intended making a rampart of the three others, in case of pursuit. Our
bark flew before the wind. ГўВҖВҳWhy does the boat go so fast?ГўВҖВҷ asked I of
my mother.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳSilence, child! Hush, we are flying!ГўВҖВҷ I did not understand. Why
should my father fly?ГўВҖВ”he, the all-powerfulГўВҖВ”he, before whom others were
accustomed to flyГўВҖВ”he, who had taken for his device,

ГўВҖВҳThey hate me; then they fear me!ГўВҖВҷ


ГўВҖВңIt was, indeed, a flight which my father was trying to effect. I have
been told since that the garrison of the castle of Yanina, fatigued
with long serviceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Here HaydГғВ©e cast a significant glance at Monte Cristo, whose eyes had
been riveted on her countenance during the whole course of her
narrative. The young girl then continued, speaking slowly, like a
person who is either inventing or suppressing some feature of the
history which he is relating.

ГўВҖВңYou were saying, signora,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, who was paying the most
implicit attention to the recital, ГўВҖВңthat the garrison of Yanina,
fatigued with long serviceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHad treated with the Seraskier15 Kourchid, who had been sent by the
sultan to gain possession of the person of my father; it was then that
Ali TepeliniГўВҖВ”after having sent to the sultan a French officer in whom
he reposed great confidenceГўВҖВ”resolved to retire to the asylum which he
had long before prepared for himself, and which he called
_kataphygion_, or the refuge.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd this officer,ГўВҖВқ asked Albert, ГўВҖВңdo you remember his name, signora?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo exchanged a rapid glance with the young girl, which was
quite unperceived by Albert.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңI do not remember it just at this moment; but if it
should occur to me presently, I will tell you.ГўВҖВқ

Albert was on the point of pronouncing his fatherГўВҖВҷs name, when Monte
Cristo gently held up his finger in token of reproach; the young man
recollected his promise, and was silent.

ГўВҖВңIt was towards this kiosk that we were rowing. A ground floor,
ornamented with arabesques, bathing its terraces in the water, and
another floor, looking on the lake, was all which was visible to the
eye. But beneath the ground floor, stretching out into the island, was
a large subterranean cavern, to which my mother, myself, and the women
were conducted. In this place were together 60,000 pouches and 200
barrels; the pouches contained 25,000,000 of money in gold, and the
barrels were filled with 30,000 pounds of gunpowder.

ГўВҖВңNear the barrels stood Selim, my fatherГўВҖВҷs favorite, whom I mentioned
to you just now. He stood watch day and night with a lance provided
with a lighted slowmatch in his hand, and he had orders to blow up
everythingГўВҖВ”kiosk, guards, women, gold, and Ali Tepelini himselfГўВҖВ”at the
first signal given by my father. I remember well that the slaves,
convinced of the precarious tenure on which they held their lives,
passed whole days and nights in praying, crying, and groaning. As for
me, I can never forget the pale complexion and black eyes of the young
soldier, and whenever the angel of death summons me to another world, I
am quite sure I shall recognize Selim. I cannot tell you how long we
remained in this state; at that period I did not even know what time
meant. Sometimes, but very rarely, my father summoned me and my mother
to the terrace of the palace; these were hours of recreation for me, as
I never saw anything in the dismal cavern but the gloomy countenances
of the slaves and SelimГўВҖВҷs fiery lance. My father was endeavoring to
pierce with his eager looks the remotest verge of the horizon,
examining attentively every black speck which appeared on the lake,
while my mother, reclining by his side, rested her head on his
shoulder, and I played at his feet, admiring everything I saw with that
unsophisticated innocence of childhood which throws a charm round
objects insignificant in themselves, but which in its eyes are invested
with the greatest importance. The heights of Pindus towered above us;
the castle of Yanina rose white and angular from the blue waters of the
lake, and the immense masses of black vegetation which, viewed in the
distance, gave the idea of lichens clinging to the rocks, were in
reality gigantic fir-trees and myrtles.

ГўВҖВңOne morning my father sent for us; my mother had been crying all the
night, and was very wretched; we found the pasha calm, but paler than
usual. ГўВҖВҳTake courage, Vasiliki,ГўВҖВҷ said he; ГўВҖВҳtoday arrives the firman of
the master, and my fate will be decided. If my pardon be complete, we
shall return triumphant to Yanina; if the news be inauspicious, we must
fly this night.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳBut supposing our enemy should not allow us to do
so?ГўВҖВҷ said my mother. ГўВҖВҳOh, make yourself easy on that head,ГўВҖВҷ said Ali,
smiling; ГўВҖВҳSelim and his flaming lance will settle that matter. They
would be glad to see me dead, but they would not like themselves to die
with me.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңMy mother only answered by sighs to consolations which she knew did
not come from my fatherГўВҖВҷs heart. She prepared the iced water which he
was in the habit of constantly drinking,ГўВҖВ”for since his sojourn at the
kiosk he had been parched by the most violent fever,ГўВҖВ”after which she
anointed his white beard with perfumed oil, and lighted his chibouque,
which he sometimes smoked for hours together, quietly watching the
wreaths of vapor that ascended in spiral clouds and gradually melted
away in the surrounding atmosphere. Presently he made such a sudden
movement that I was paralyzed with fear. Then, without taking his eyes
from the object which had first attracted his attention, he asked for
his telescope. My mother gave it him, and as she did so, looked whiter
than the marble against which she leaned. I saw my fatherГўВҖВҷs hand
tremble. ГўВҖВҳA boat!ГўВҖВ”two!ГўВҖВ”three!ГўВҖВҷ murmured my, father;ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳfour!ГўВҖВҷ He then
arose, seizing his arms and priming his pistols. ГўВҖВҳVasiliki,ГўВҖВҷ said he to
my mother, trembling perceptibly, ГўВҖВҳthe instant approaches which will
decide everything. In the space of half an hour we shall know the
emperorГўВҖВҷs answer. Go into the cavern with HaydГғВ©e.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳI will not quit
you,ГўВҖВҷ said Vasiliki; ГўВҖВҳif you die, my lord, I will die with you.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳGo to
Selim!ГўВҖВҷ cried my father. ГўВҖВҳAdieu, my lord,ГўВҖВҷ murmured my mother,
determining quietly to await the approach of death. ГўВҖВҳTake away
Vasiliki!ГўВҖВҷ said my father to his Palikares.

ГўВҖВңAs for me, I had been forgotten in the general confusion; I ran toward
Ali Tepelini; he saw me hold out my arms to him, and he stooped down
and pressed my forehead with his lips. Oh, how distinctly I remember
that kiss!ГўВҖВ”it was the last he ever gave me, and I feel as if it were
still warm on my forehead. On descending, we saw through the
lattice-work several boats which were gradually becoming more distinct
to our view. At first they appeared like black specks, and now they
looked like birds skimming the surface of the waves. During this time,
in the kiosk at my fatherГўВҖВҷs feet, were seated twenty Palikares,
concealed from view by an angle of the wall and watching with eager
eyes the arrival of the boats. They were armed with their long guns
inlaid with mother-of-pearl and silver, and cartridges in great numbers
were lying scattered on the floor. My father looked at his watch, and
paced up and down with a countenance expressive of the greatest
anguish. This was the scene which presented itself to my view as I
quitted my father after that last kiss.

ГўВҖВңMy mother and I traversed the gloomy passage leading to the cavern.
Selim was still at his post, and smiled sadly on us as we entered. We
fetched our cushions from the other end of the cavern, and sat down by
Selim. In great dangers the devoted ones cling to each other; and,
young as I was, I quite understood that some imminent danger was
hanging over our heads.ГўВҖВқ

Albert had often heardГўВҖВ”not from his father, for he never spoke on the
subject, but from strangersГўВҖВ”the description of the last moments of the
vizier of Yanina; he had read different accounts of his death, but the
story seemed to acquire fresh meaning from the voice and expression of
the young girl, and her sympathetic accent and the melancholy
expression of her countenance at once charmed and horrified him.

As to HaydГғВ©e, these terrible reminiscences seemed to have overpowered
her for a moment, for she ceased speaking, her head leaning on her hand
like a beautiful flower bowing beneath the violence of the storm; and
her eyes gazing on vacancy indicated that she was mentally
contemplating the green summit of the Pindus and the blue waters of the
lake of Yanina, which, like a magic mirror, seemed to reflect the
sombre picture which she sketched. Monte Cristo looked at her with an
indescribable expression of interest and pity.

ГўВҖВңGo on, my child,ГўВҖВқ said the count in the Romaic language.

40074m



HaydГғВ©e looked up abruptly, as if the sonorous tones of Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs
voice had awakened her from a dream; and she resumed her narrative.

ГўВҖВңIt was about four oГўВҖВҷclock in the afternoon, and although the day was
brilliant out-of-doors, we were enveloped in the gloomy darkness of the
cavern. One single, solitary light was burning there, and it appeared
like a star set in a heaven of blackness; it was SelimГўВҖВҷs flaming lance.
My mother was a Christian, and she prayed. Selim repeated from time to
time the sacred words: ГўВҖВҳGod is great!ГўВҖВҷ However, my mother had still
some hope. As she was coming down, she thought she recognized the
French officer who had been sent to Constantinople, and in whom my
father placed so much confidence; for he knew that all the soldiers of
the French emperor were naturally noble and generous. She advanced some
steps towards the staircase, and listened. ГўВҖВҳThey are approaching,ГўВҖВҷ said
she; ГўВҖВҳperhaps they bring us peace and liberty!ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhat do you fear, Vasiliki?ГўВҖВҷ said Selim, in a voice at once so gentle
and yet so proud. ГўВҖВҳIf they do not bring us peace, we will give them
war; if they do not bring life, we will give them death.ГўВҖВҷ And he
renewed the flame of his lance with a gesture which made one think of
Dionysus of old Crete.16 But I, being only a little child, was
terrified by this undaunted courage, which appeared to me both
ferocious and senseless, and I recoiled with horror from the idea of
the frightful death amidst fire and flames which probably awaited us.

ГўВҖВңMy mother experienced the same sensations, for I felt her tremble.
ГўВҖВҳMamma, mamma,ГўВҖВҷ said I, ГўВҖВҳare we really to be killed?ГўВҖВҷ And at the sound
of my voice the slaves redoubled their cries and prayers and
lamentations. ГўВҖВҳMy child,ГўВҖВҷ said Vasiliki, ГўВҖВҳmay God preserve you from
ever wishing for that death which today you so much dread!ГўВҖВҷ Then,
whispering to Selim, she asked what were her masterГўВҖВҷs orders. ГўВҖВҳIf he
send me his poniard, it will signify that the emperorГўВҖВҷs intentions are
not favorable, and I am to set fire to the powder; if, on the contrary,
he send me his ring, it will be a sign that the emperor pardons him,
and I am to extinguish the match and leave the magazine untouched.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳMy
friend,ГўВҖВҷ said my mother, ГўВҖВҳwhen your masterГўВҖВҷs orders arrive, if it is
the poniard which he sends, instead of despatching us by that horrible
death which we both so much dread, you will mercifully kill us with
this same poniard, will you not?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳYes, Vasiliki,ГўВҖВҷ replied Selim
tranquilly.

ГўВҖВңSuddenly we heard loud cries; and, listening, discerned that they were
cries of joy. The name of the French officer who had been sent to
Constantinople resounded on all sides amongst our Palikares; it was
evident that he brought the answer of the emperor, and that it was
favorable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you not remember the FrenchmanГўВҖВҷs name?ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, quite
ready to aid the memory of the narrator. Monte Cristo made a sign to
him to be silent.

ГўВҖВңI do not recollect it,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e.

ГўВҖВңThe noise increased; steps were heard approaching nearer and nearer;
they were descending the steps leading to the cavern. Selim made ready
his lance. Soon a figure appeared in the gray twilight at the entrance
of the cave, formed by the reflection of the few rays of daylight which
had found their way into this gloomy retreat. ГўВҖВҳWho are you?ГўВҖВҷ cried
Selim. ГўВҖВҳBut whoever you may be, I charge you not to advance another
step.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳLong live the emperor!ГўВҖВҷ said the figure. ГўВҖВҳHe grants a full
pardon to the Vizier Ali, and not only gives him his life, but restores
to him his fortune and his possessions.ГўВҖВҷ My mother uttered a cry of
joy, and clasped me to her bosom. ГўВҖВҳStop,ГўВҖВҷ said Selim, seeing that she
was about to go out; ГўВҖВҳyou see I have not yet received the
ring,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳTrue,ГўВҖВҷ said my mother. And she fell on her knees, at the same
time holding me up towards heaven, as if she desired, while praying to
God in my behalf, to raise me actually to his presence.ГўВҖВқ

And for the second time HaydГғВ©e stopped, overcome by such violent
emotion that the perspiration stood upon her pale brow, and her stifled
voice seemed hardly able to find utterance, so parched and dry were her
throat and lips.

40076m



Monte Cristo poured a little iced water into a glass, and presented it
to her, saying with a mildness in which was also a shade of
command,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңCourage.ГўВҖВқ

HaydГғВ©e dried her eyes, and continued:

ГўВҖВңBy this time our eyes, habituated to the darkness, had recognized the
messenger of the pasha,ГўВҖВ”it was a friend. Selim had also recognized him,
but the brave young man only acknowledged one duty, which was to obey.
ГўВҖВҳIn whose name do you come?ГўВҖВҷ said he to him. ГўВҖВҳI come in the name of our
master, Ali Tepelini.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳIf you come from Ali himself,ГўВҖВҷ said Selim, ГўВҖВҳyou
know what you were charged to remit to me?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ said the messenger,
ГўВҖВҳand I bring you his ring.ГўВҖВҷ At these words he raised his hand above his
head, to show the token; but it was too far off, and there was not
light enough to enable Selim, where he was standing, to distinguish and
recognize the object presented to his view. ГўВҖВҳI do not see what you have
in your hand,ГўВҖВҷ said Selim. ГўВҖВҳApproach then,ГўВҖВҷ said the messenger, ГўВҖВҳor I
will come nearer to you, if you prefer it.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳI will agree to neither
one nor the other,ГўВҖВҷ replied the young soldier; ГўВҖВҳplace the object which
I desire to see in the ray of light which shines there, and retire
while I examine it.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳBe it so,ГўВҖВҷ said the envoy; and he retired, after
having first deposited the token agreed on in the place pointed out to
him by Selim.

ГўВҖВңOh, how our hearts palpitated; for it did, indeed, seem to be a ring
which was placed there. But was it my fatherГўВҖВҷs ring? that was the
question. Selim, still holding in his hand the lighted match, walked
towards the opening in the cavern, and, aided by the faint light which
streamed in through the mouth of the cave, picked up the token.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳIt is well,ГўВҖВҷ said he, kissing it; ГўВҖВҳit is my masterГўВҖВҷs ring!ГўВҖВҷ And
throwing the match on the ground, he trampled on it and extinguished
it. The messenger uttered a cry of joy and clapped his hands. At this
signal four soldiers of the Seraskier Kourchid suddenly appeared, and
Selim fell, pierced by five blows. Each man had stabbed him separately,
and, intoxicated by their crime, though still pale with fear, they
sought all over the cavern to discover if there was any fear of fire,
after which they amused themselves by rolling on the bags of gold. At
this moment my mother seized me in her arms, and hurrying noiselessly
along numerous turnings and windings known only to ourselves, she
arrived at a private staircase of the kiosk, where was a scene of
frightful tumult and confusion. The lower rooms were entirely filled
with KourchidГўВҖВҷs troops; that is to say, with our enemies. Just as my
mother was on the point of pushing open a small door, we heard the
voice of the pasha sounding in a loud and threatening tone. My mother
applied her eye to the crack between the boards; I luckily found a
small opening which afforded me a view of the apartment and what was
passing within. ГўВҖВҳWhat do you want?ГўВҖВҷ said my father to some people who
were holding a paper inscribed with characters of gold. ГўВҖВҳWhat we want,ГўВҖВҷ
replied one, ГўВҖВҳis to communicate to you the will of his highness. Do you
see this firman?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳI do,ГўВҖВҷ said my father. ГўВҖВҳWell, read it; he demands
your head.ГўВҖВҷ

40078m



ГўВҖВңMy father answered with a loud laugh, which was more frightful than
even threats would have been, and he had not ceased when two reports of
a pistol were heard; he had fired them himself, and had killed two men.
The Palikares, who were prostrated at my fatherГўВҖВҷs feet, now sprang up
and fired, and the room was filled with fire and smoke. At the same
instant the firing began on the other side, and the balls penetrated
the boards all round us. Oh, how noble did the grand vizier my father
look at that moment, in the midst of the flying bullets, his scimitar
in his hand, and his face blackened with the powder of his enemies! and
how he terrified them, even then, and made them fly before him! ГўВҖВҳSelim,
Selim!ГўВҖВҷ cried he, ГўВҖВҳguardian of the fire, do your duty!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳSelim is
dead,ГўВҖВҷ replied a voice which seemed to come from the depths of the
earth, ГўВҖВҳand you are lost, Ali!ГўВҖВҷ At the same moment an explosion was
heard, and the flooring of the room in which my father was sitting was
suddenly torn up and shivered to atomsГўВҖВ”the troops were firing from
underneath. Three or four Palikares fell with their bodies literally
ploughed with wounds.

ГўВҖВңMy father howled aloud, plunged his fingers into the holes which the
balls had made, and tore up one of the planks entire. But immediately
through this opening twenty more shots were fired, and the flame,
rushing up like fire from the crater of a volcano, soon reached the
tapestry, which it quickly devoured. In the midst of all this frightful
tumult and these terrific cries, two reports, fearfully distinct,
followed by two shrieks more heartrending than all, froze me with
terror. These two shots had mortally wounded my father, and it was he
who had given utterance to these frightful cries. However, he remained
standing, clinging to a window. My mother tried to force the door, that
she might go and die with him, but it was fastened on the inside. All
around him were lying the Palikares, writhing in convulsive agonies,
while two or three who were only slightly wounded were trying to escape
by springing from the windows. At this crisis the whole flooring
suddenly gave way, my father fell on one knee, and at the same moment
twenty hands were thrust forth, armed with sabres, pistols, and
poniardsГўВҖВ”twenty blows were instantaneously directed against one man,
and my father disappeared in a whirlwind of fire and smoke kindled by
these demons, and which seemed like hell itself opening beneath his
feet. I felt myself fall to the ground, my mother had fainted.ГўВҖВқ

HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs arms fell by her side, and she uttered a deep groan, at the
same time looking towards the count as if to ask if he were satisfied
with her obedience to his commands.

Monte Cristo arose and approached her, took her hand, and said to her
in Romaic:

ГўВҖВңCalm yourself, my dear child, and take courage in remembering that
there is a God who will punish traitors.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is a frightful story, count,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, terrified at the
paleness of HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs countenance, ГўВҖВңand I reproach myself now for having
been so cruel and thoughtless in my request.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is nothing,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. Then, patting the young girl on
the head, he continued, ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e is very courageous, and she sometimes
even finds consolation in the recital of her misfortunes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause, my lord,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e eagerly, ГўВҖВңmy miseries recall to me the
remembrance of your goodness.ГўВҖВқ

Albert looked at her with curiosity, for she had not yet related what
he most desired to know,ГўВҖВ”how she had become the slave of the count.
HaydГғВ©e saw at a glance the same expression pervading the countenances
of her two auditors; she continued:

ГўВҖВңWhen my mother recovered her senses we were before the seraskier.
ГўВҖВҳKill,ГўВҖВҷ said she, ГўВҖВҳbut spare the honor of the widow of Ali.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳIt is not
to me to whom you must address yourself,ГўВҖВҷ said Kourchid.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTo whom, then?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳTo your new master.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWho and where is he?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳHe is here.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңAnd Kourchid pointed out one who had more than any contributed to the
death of my father,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e, in a tone of chastened anger.

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңyou became the property of this man?ГўВҖВқ

40080m



ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied HaydГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңhe did not dare to keep us, so we were sold to
some slave-merchants who were going to Constantinople. We traversed
Greece, and arrived half dead at the imperial gates. They were
surrounded by a crowd of people, who opened a way for us to pass, when
suddenly my mother, having looked closely at an object which was
attracting their attention, uttered a piercing cry and fell to the
ground, pointing as she did so to a head which was placed over the
gates, and beneath which were inscribed these words:

ГўВҖВҳ_This is the head of Ali Tepelini, Pasha of Yanina._ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңI cried bitterly, and tried to raise my mother from the earth, but she
was dead! I was taken to the slave-market, and was purchased by a rich
Armenian. He caused me to be instructed, gave me masters, and when I
was thirteen years of age he sold me to the Sultan Mahmoud.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf whom I bought her,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңas I told you, Albert, with
the emerald which formed a match to the one I had made into a box for
the purpose of holding my hashish pills.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you are good, you are great, my lord!ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e, kissing the
countГўВҖВҷs hand, ГўВҖВңand I am very fortunate in belonging to such a master!ГўВҖВқ

Albert remained quite bewildered with all that he had seen and heard.

ГўВҖВңCome, finish your cup of coffee,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңthe history is
ended.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 78. We hear From Yanina

If Valentine could have seen the trembling step and agitated
countenance of Franz when he quitted the chamber of M. Noirtier, even
she would have been constrained to pity him. Villefort had only just
given utterance to a few incoherent sentences, and then retired to his
study, where he received about two hours afterwards the following
letter:

ГўВҖВңAfter all the disclosures which were made this morning, M. Noirtier de
Villefort must see the utter impossibility of any alliance being formed
between his family and that of M. Franz dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay. M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay must say
that he is shocked and astonished that M. de Villefort, who appeared to
be aware of all the circumstances detailed this morning, should not
have anticipated him in this announcement.ГўВҖВқ


No one who had seen the magistrate at this moment, so thoroughly
unnerved by the recent inauspicious combination of circumstances, would
have supposed for an instant that he had anticipated the annoyance;
although it certainly never had occurred to him that his father would
carry candor, or rather rudeness, so far as to relate such a history.
And in justice to Villefort, it must be understood that M. Noirtier,
who never cared for the opinion of his son on any subject, had always
omitted to explain the affair to Villefort, so that he had all his life
entertained the belief that General de Quesnel, or the Baron dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay,
as he was alternately styled, according as the speaker wished to
identify him by his own family name, or by the title which had been
conferred on him, fell the victim of assassination, and not that he was
killed fairly in a duel. This harsh letter, coming as it did from a man
generally so polite and respectful, struck a mortal blow at the pride
of Villefort.

Hardly had he read the letter, when his wife entered. The sudden
departure of Franz, after being summoned by M. Noirtier, had so much
astonished everyone, that the position of Madame de Villefort, left
alone with the notary and the witnesses, became every moment more
embarrassing. Determined to bear it no longer, she arose and left the
room; saying she would go and make some inquiries into the cause of his
sudden disappearance.

M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs communications on the subject were very limited and
concise; he told her, in fact, that an explanation had taken place
between M. Noirtier, M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, and himself, and that the marriage of
Valentine and Franz would consequently be broken off. This was an
awkward and unpleasant thing to have to report to those who were
waiting. She therefore contented herself with saying that M. Noirtier
having at the commencement of the discussion been attacked by a sort of
apoplectic fit, the affair would necessarily be deferred for some days
longer. This news, false as it was following so singularly in the train
of the two similar misfortunes which had so recently occurred,
evidently astonished the auditors, and they retired without a word.

During this time Valentine, at once terrified and happy, after having
embraced and thanked the feeble old man for thus breaking with a single
blow the chain which she had been accustomed to consider as
irrefragable, asked leave to retire to her own room, in order to
recover her composure. Noirtier looked the permission which she
solicited. But instead of going to her own room, Valentine, having once
gained her liberty, entered the gallery, and, opening a small door at
the end of it, found herself at once in the garden.

In the midst of all the strange events which had crowded one on the
other, an indefinable sentiment of dread had taken possession of
ValentineГўВҖВҷs mind. She expected every moment that she should see Morrel
appear, pale and trembling, to forbid the signing of the contract, like
the Laird of Ravenswood in _The Bride of Lammermoor_.

It was high time for her to make her appearance at the gate, for
Maximilian had long awaited her coming. He had half guessed what was
going on when he saw Franz quit the cemetery with M. de Villefort. He
followed M. dГўВҖВҷГғВүpinay, saw him enter, afterwards go out, and then
re-enter with Albert and ChГғВўteau-Renaud. He had no longer any doubts as
to the nature of the conference; he therefore quickly went to the gate
in the clover-patch, prepared to hear the result of the proceedings,
and very certain that Valentine would hasten to him the first moment
she should be set at liberty. He was not mistaken; peering through the
crevices of the wooden partition, he soon discovered the young girl,
who cast aside all her usual precautions and walked at once to the
barrier. The first glance which Maximilian directed towards her
entirely reassured him, and the first words she spoke made his heart
bound with delight.

ГўВҖВңWe are saved!ГўВҖВқ said Valentine.

ГўВҖВңSaved?ГўВҖВқ repeated Morrel, not being able to conceive such intense
happiness; ГўВҖВңby whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy my grandfather. Oh, Morrel, pray love him for all his goodness to
us!ГўВҖВқ

Morrel swore to love him with all his soul; and at that moment he could
safely promise to do so, for he felt as though it were not enough to
love him merely as a friend or even as a father, he worshiped him as a
god.

ГўВҖВңBut tell me, Valentine, how has it all been effected? What strange
means has he used to compass this blessed end?ГўВҖВқ

Valentine was on the point of relating all that had passed, but she
suddenly remembered that in doing so she must reveal a terrible secret
which concerned others as well as her grandfather, and she said:

ГўВҖВңAt some future time I will tell you all about it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut when will that be?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen I am your wife.ГўВҖВқ

The conversation had now turned upon a topic so pleasing to Morrel,
that he was ready to accede to anything that Valentine thought fit to
propose, and he likewise felt that a piece of intelligence such as he
just heard ought to be more than sufficient to content him for one day.
However, he would not leave without the promise of seeing Valentine
again the next night. Valentine promised all that Morrel required of
her, and certainly it was less difficult now for her to believe that
she should marry Maximilian than it was an hour ago to assure herself
that she should not marry Franz.

During the time occupied by the interview we have just detailed, Madame
de Villefort had gone to visit M. Noirtier. The old man looked at her
with that stern and forbidding expression with which he was accustomed
to receive her.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңit is superfluous for me to tell you that ValentineГўВҖВҷs
marriage is broken off, since it was here that the affair was
concluded.ГўВҖВқ

NoirtierГўВҖВҷs countenance remained immovable.

ГўВҖВңBut one thing I can tell you, of which I do not think you are aware;
that is, that I have always been opposed to this marriage, and that the
contract was entered into entirely without my consent or approbation.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier regarded his daughter-in-law with the look of a man desiring
an explanation.

ГўВҖВңNow that this marriage, which I know you so much disliked, is done
away with, I come to you on an errand which neither M. de Villefort nor
Valentine could consistently undertake.ГўВҖВқ

NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eyes demanded the nature of her mission.

ГўВҖВңI come to entreat you, sir,ГўВҖВқ continued Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңas the
only one who has the right of doing so, inasmuch as I am the only one
who will receive no personal benefit from the transaction,ГўВҖВ”I come to
entreat you to restore, not your love, for that she has always
possessed, but to restore your fortune to your granddaughter.ГўВҖВқ

There was a doubtful expression in NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eyes; he was evidently
trying to discover the motive of this proceeding, and he could not
succeed in doing so.

ГўВҖВңMay I hope, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңthat your intentions
accord with my request?ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier made a sign that they did.

ГўВҖВңIn that case, sir,ГўВҖВқ rejoined Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңI will leave you
overwhelmed with gratitude and happiness at your prompt acquiescence to
my wishes.ГўВҖВқ She then bowed to M. Noirtier and retired.

The next day M. Noirtier sent for the notary; the first will was torn
up and a second made, in which he left the whole of his fortune to
Valentine, on condition that she should never be separated from him. It
was then generally reported that Mademoiselle de Villefort, the heiress
of the marquis and marchioness of Saint-MГғВ©ran, had regained the good
graces of her grandfather, and that she would ultimately be in
possession of an income of 300,000 livres.

While all the proceedings relative to the dissolution of the
marriage-contract were being carried on at the house of M. de
Villefort, Monte Cristo had paid his visit to the Count of Morcerf,
who, in order to lose no time in responding to M. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ wishes, and
at the same time to pay all due deference to his position in society,
donned his uniform of lieutenant-general, which he ornamented with all
his crosses, and thus attired, ordered his finest horses and drove to
the Rue de la ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin.

Danglars was balancing his monthly accounts, and it was perhaps not the
most favorable moment for finding him in his best humor. At the first
sight of his old friend, Danglars assumed his majestic air, and settled
himself in his easy-chair.

Morcerf, usually so stiff and formal, accosted the banker in an affable
and smiling manner, and, feeling sure that the overture he was about to
make would be well received, he did not consider it necessary to adopt
any manГ…В“uvres in order to gain his end, but went at once straight to
the point.

40086m



ГўВҖВңWell, baron,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңhere I am at last; some time has elapsed since
our plans were formed, and they are not yet executed.ГўВҖВқ

Morcerf paused at these words, quietly waiting till the cloud should
have dispersed which had gathered on the brow of Danglars, and which he
attributed to his silence; but, on the contrary, to his great surprise,
it grew darker and darker.

ГўВҖВңTo what do you allude, monsieur?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; as if he were trying
in vain to guess at the possible meaning of the generalГўВҖВҷs words.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңI see you are a stickler for forms, my dear sir,
and you would remind me that the ceremonial rites should not be
omitted. _Ma foi_, I beg your pardon, but as I have but one son, and it
is the first time I have ever thought of marrying him, I am still
serving my apprenticeship, you know; come, I will reform.ГўВҖВқ

And Morcerf with a forced smile arose, and, making a low bow to M.
Danglars, said:

ГўВҖВңBaron, I have the honor of asking of you the hand of Mademoiselle
EugГғВ©nie Danglars for my son, the Vicomte Albert de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

But Danglars, instead of receiving this address in the favorable manner
which Morcerf had expected, knit his brow, and without inviting the
count, who was still standing, to take a seat, he said:

ГўВҖВңMonsieur, it will be necessary to reflect before I give you an
answer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo reflect?ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, more and more astonished; ГўВҖВңhave you not had
enough time for reflection during the eight years which have elapsed
since this marriage was first discussed between us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said the banker, ГўВҖВңthings are constantly occurring in the world
to induce us to lay aside our most established opinions, or at all
events to cause us to remodel them according to the change of
circumstances, which may have placed affairs in a totally different
light to that in which we at first viewed them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not understand you, baron,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңWhat I mean to say is this, sir,ГўВҖВ”that during the last fortnight
unforeseen circumstances have occurredГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcuse me,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңbut is it a play we are acting?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA play?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, for it is like one; pray let us come more to the point, and
endeavor thoroughly to understand each other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is quite my desire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have seen M. de Monte Cristo have you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI see him very often,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, drawing himself up; ГўВҖВңhe is a
particular friend of mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, in one of your late conversations with him, you said that I
appeared to be forgetful and irresolute concerning this marriage, did
you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did say so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, here I am, proving at once that I am really neither the one nor
the other, by entreating you to keep your promise on that score.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars did not answer.

ГўВҖВңHave you so soon changed your mind,ГўВҖВқ added Morcerf, ГўВҖВңor have you only
provoked my request that you may have the pleasure of seeing me
humbled?ГўВҖВқ

Danglars, seeing that if he continued the conversation in the same tone
in which he had begun it, the whole thing might turn out to his own
disadvantage, turned to Morcerf, and said:

ГўВҖВңCount, you must doubtless be surprised at my reserve, and I assure you
it costs me much to act in such a manner towards you; but, believe me
when I say that imperative necessity has imposed the painful task upon
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThese are all so many empty words, my dear sir,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf: ГўВҖВңthey
might satisfy a new acquaintance, but the Comte de Morcerf does not
rank in that list; and when a man like him comes to another, recalls to
him his plighted word, and this man fails to redeem the pledge, he has
at least a right to exact from him a good reason for so doing.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars was a coward, but did not wish to appear so; he was piqued at
the tone which Morcerf had just assumed.

ГўВҖВңI am not without a good reason for my conduct,ГўВҖВқ replied the banker.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean to say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean to say that I have a good reason, but that it is difficult to
explain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must be aware, at all events, that it is impossible for me to
understand motives before they are explained to me; but one thing at
least is clear, which is, that you decline allying yourself with my
family.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңI merely suspend my decision, that is all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you really flatter yourself that I shall yield to all your
caprices, and quietly and humbly await the time of again being received
into your good graces?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, count, if you will not wait, we must look upon these projects as
if they had never been entertained.ГўВҖВқ

The count bit his lips till the blood almost started, to prevent the
ebullition of anger which his proud and irritable temper scarcely
allowed him to restrain; understanding, however, that in the present
state of things the laugh would decidedly be against him, he turned
from the door, towards which he had been directing his steps, and again
confronted the banker. A cloud settled on his brow, evincing decided
anxiety and uneasiness, instead of the expression of offended pride
which had lately reigned there.

ГўВҖВңMy dear Danglars,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңwe have been acquainted for many
years, and consequently we ought to make some allowance for each
otherГўВҖВҷs failings. You owe me an explanation, and really it is but fair
that I should know what circumstance has occurred to deprive my son of
your favor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is from no personal ill-feeling towards the viscount, that is all I
can say, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, who resumed his insolent manner as
soon as he perceived that Morcerf was a little softened and calmed
down.

ГўВҖВңAnd towards whom do you bear this personal ill-feeling, then?ГўВҖВқ said
Morcerf, turning pale with anger. The expression of the countГўВҖВҷs face
had not remained unperceived by the banker; he fixed on him a look of
greater assurance than before, and said:

ГўВҖВңYou may, perhaps, be better satisfied that I should not go farther
into particulars.ГўВҖВқ

A tremor of suppressed rage shook the whole frame of the count, and
making a violent effort over himself, he said: ГўВҖВңI have a right to
insist on your giving me an explanation. Is it Madame de Morcerf who
has displeased you? Is it my fortune which you find insufficient? Is it
because my opinions differ from yours?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing of the kind, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars: ГўВҖВңif such had been the
case, I only should have been to blame, inasmuch as I was aware of all
these things when I made the engagement. No, do not seek any longer to
discover the reason. I really am quite ashamed to have been the cause
of your undergoing such severe self-examination; let us drop the
subject, and adopt the middle course of delay, which implies neither a
rupture nor an engagement. _Ma foi_, there is no hurry. My daughter is
only seventeen years old, and your son twenty-one. While we wait, time
will be progressing, events will succeed each other; things which in
the evening look dark and obscure, appear but too clearly in the light
of morning, and sometimes the utterance of one word, or the lapse of a
single day, will reveal the most cruel calumnies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCalumnies, did you say, sir?ГўВҖВқ cried Morcerf, turning livid with rage.
ГўВҖВңDoes anyone dare to slander me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMonsieur, I told you that I considered it best to avoid all
explanation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, sir, I am patiently to submit to your refusal?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir, although I assure you the refusal is as painful for me to
give as it is for you to receive, for I had reckoned on the honor of
your alliance, and the breaking off of a marriage contract always
injures the lady more than the gentleman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEnough, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңwe will speak no more on the subject.ГўВҖВқ

And clutching his gloves in anger, he left the apartment. Danglars
observed that during the whole conversation Morcerf had never once
dared to ask if it was on his own account that Danglars recalled his
word.

That evening he had a long conference with several friends; and M.
Cavalcanti, who had remained in the drawing-room with the ladies, was
the last to leave the bankerГўВҖВҷs house.

The next morning, as soon as he awoke, Danglars asked for the
newspapers; they were brought to him; he laid aside three or four, and
at last fixed on _lГўВҖВҷImpartial_, the paper of which Beauchamp was the
chief editor. He hastily tore off the cover, opened the journal with
nervous precipitation, passed contemptuously over the Paris jottings,
and arriving at the miscellaneous intelligence, stopped with a
malicious smile, at a paragraph headed

_We hear from Yanina._


ГўВҖВңVery good,ГўВҖВқ observed Danglars, after having read the paragraph; ГўВҖВңhere
is a little article on Colonel Fernand, which, if I am not mistaken,
would render the explanation which the Comte de Morcerf required of me
perfectly unnecessary.ГўВҖВқ

At the same moment, that is, at nine oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning, Albert de
Morcerf, dressed in a black coat buttoned up to his chin, might have
been seen walking with a quick and agitated step in the direction of
Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs house in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es. When he presented himself
at the gate the porter informed him that the Count had gone out about
half an hour previously.

ГўВҖВңDid he take Baptistin with him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my lord.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCall him, then; I wish to speak to him.ГўВҖВқ

The concierge went to seek the valet de chambre, and returned with him
in an instant.

ГўВҖВңMy good friend,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI beg pardon for my intrusion, but I
was anxious to know from your own mouth if your master was really out
or not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is really out, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Baptistin.

ГўВҖВңOut, even to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know how happy my master always is to receive the vicomte,ГўВҖВқ said
Baptistin; ГўВҖВңand I should therefore never think of including him in any
general order.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right; and now I wish to see him on an affair of great
importance. Do you think it will be long before he comes in?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I think not, for he ordered his breakfast at ten oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I will go and take a turn in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, and at ten
oГўВҖВҷclock I will return here; meanwhile, if the count should come in,
will you beg him not to go out again without seeing me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou may depend on my doing so, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Baptistin.

Albert left the cab in which he had come at the countГўВҖВҷs door, intending
to take a turn on foot. As he was passing the AllГғВ©e des Veuves, he
thought he saw the countГўВҖВҷs horses standing at GossetГўВҖВҷs
shooting-gallery; he approached, and soon recognized the coachman.

ГўВҖВңIs the count shooting in the gallery?ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the coachman. While he was speaking, Albert had
heard the report of two or three pistol-shots. He entered, and on his
way met the waiter.

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, my lord,ГўВҖВқ said the lad; ГўВҖВңbut will you have the kindness to
wait a moment?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat for, Philip?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert, who, being a constant visitor there,
did not understand this opposition to his entrance.

ГўВҖВңBecause the person who is now in the gallery prefers being alone, and
never practices in the presence of anyone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot even before you, Philip? Then who loads his pistol?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis servant.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA Nubian?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA negro.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is he, then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you know this gentleman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and I am come to look for him; he is a friend of mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that is quite another thing, then. I will go immediately and
inform him of your arrival.ГўВҖВқ

And Philip, urged by his own curiosity, entered the gallery; a second
afterwards, Monte Cristo appeared on the threshold.

ГўВҖВңI ask your pardon, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңfor following you
here, and I must first tell you that it was not the fault of your
servants that I did so; I alone am to blame for the indiscretion. I
went to your house, and they told me you were out, but that they
expected you home at ten oГўВҖВҷclock to breakfast. I was walking about in
order to pass away the time till ten oГўВҖВҷclock, when I caught sight of
your carriage and horses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat you have just said induces me to hope that you intend
breakfasting with me.ГўВҖВқ

40092m



ГўВҖВңNo, thank you, I am thinking of other things besides breakfast just
now; perhaps we may take that meal at a later hour and in worse
company.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat on earth are you talking of?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am to fight today.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor the sake of fighting!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I understand that, but what is the quarrel? People fight for all
sorts of reasons, you know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI fight in the cause of honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is something serious.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo serious, that I come to beg you to render me a service.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo be my second.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is a serious matter, and we will not discuss it here; let us
speak of nothing till we get home. Ali, bring me some water.ГўВҖВқ

The count turned up his sleeves, and passed into the little vestibule
where the gentlemen were accustomed to wash their hands after shooting.

ГўВҖВңCome in, my lord,ГўВҖВқ said Philip in a low tone, ГўВҖВңand I will show you
something droll.ГўВҖВқ Morcerf entered, and in place of the usual target, he
saw some playing-cards fixed against the wall. At a distance Albert
thought it was a complete suit, for he counted from the ace to the ten.

ГўВҖВңAh, ha,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI see you were preparing for a game of cards.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI was making a suit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow?ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңThose are really aces and twos which you see, but my shots have turned
them into threes, fives, sevens, eights, nines, and tens.ГўВҖВқ

Albert approached. In fact, the bullets had actually pierced the cards
in the exact places which the painted signs would otherwise have
occupied, the lines and distances being as regularly kept as if they
had been ruled with pencil. In going up to the target Morcerf picked up
two or three swallows that had been rash enough to come within the
range of the countГўВҖВҷs pistol.

ГўВҖВң_Diable!_ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңWhat would you have, my dear viscount?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, wiping his
hands on the towel which Ali had brought him; ГўВҖВңI must occupy my leisure
moments in some way or other. But come, I am waiting for you.ГўВҖВқ

Both men entered Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs carriage, which in the course of a few
minutes deposited them safely at No. 30. Monte Cristo took Albert into
his study, and pointing to a seat, placed another for himself. ГўВҖВңNow let
us talk the matter over quietly,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңYou see I am perfectly composed,ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңWith whom are you going to fight?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith Beauchamp.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne of your friends!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf course; it is always with friends that one fights.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI suppose you have some cause of quarrel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have.ГўВҖВқ

40094m



ГўВҖВңWhat has he done to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere appeared in his journal last nightГўВҖВ”but wait, and read for
yourself.ГўВҖВқ And Albert handed over the paper to the count, who read as
follows:

ГўВҖВңA correspondent at Yanina informs us of a fact of which until now we
had remained in ignorance. The castle which formed the protection of
the town was given up to the Turks by a French officer named Fernand,
in whom the grand vizier, Ali Tepelini, had reposed the greatest
confidence.ГўВҖВқ


ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңwhat do you see in that to annoy you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do I see in it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; what does it signify to you if the castle of Yanina was given up
by a French officer?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt signifies to my father, the Count of Morcerf, whose Christian name
is Fernand!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid your father serve under Ali Pasha?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; that is to say, he fought for the independence of the Greeks, and
hence arises the calumny.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, my dear viscount, do talk reason!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not desire to do otherwise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow, just tell me who the devil should know in France that the officer
Fernand and the Count of Morcerf are one and the same person? and who
cares now about Yanina, which was taken as long ago as the year 1822 or
1823?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat just shows the meanness of this slander. They have allowed all
this time to elapse, and then all of a sudden rake up events which have
been forgotten to furnish materials for scandal, in order to tarnish
the lustre of our high position. I inherit my fatherГўВҖВҷs name, and I do
not choose that the shadow of disgrace should darken it. I am going to
Beauchamp, in whose journal this paragraph appears, and I shall insist
on his retracting the assertion before two witnesses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBeauchamp will never retract.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen we must fight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo you will not, for he will tell you, what is very true, that perhaps
there were fifty officers in the Greek army bearing the same name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe will fight, nevertheless. I will efface that blot on my fatherГўВҖВҷs
character. My father, who was such a brave soldier, whose career was so
brilliantГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, well, he will add, ГўВҖВҳWe are warranted in believing that this
Fernand is not the illustrious Count of Morcerf, who also bears the
same Christian name.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am determined not to be content with anything short of an entire
retractation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you intend to make him do it in the presence of two witnesses, do
you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do wrong.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich means, I suppose, that you refuse the service which I asked of
you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know my theory regarding duels; I told you my opinion on that
subject, if you remember, when we were at Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNevertheless, my dear count, I found you this morning engaged in an
occupation but little consistent with the notions you profess to
entertain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause, my dear fellow, you understand one must never be eccentric.
If oneГўВҖВҷs lot is cast among fools, it is necessary to study folly. I
shall perhaps find myself one day called out by some harebrained scamp,
who has no more real cause of quarrel with me than you have with
Beauchamp; he may take me to task for some foolish trifle or other, he
will bring his witnesses, or will insult me in some public place, and I
am expected to kill him for all that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou admit that you would fight, then? Well, if so, why do you object
to my doing so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not say that you ought not to fight, I only say that a duel is a
serious thing, and ought not to be undertaken without due reflection.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid he reflect before he insulted my father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf he spoke hastily, and owns that he did so, you ought to be
satisfied.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear count, you are far too indulgent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you are far too exacting. Supposing, for instance, and do not be
angry at what I am going to sayГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSupposing the assertion to be really true?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA son ought not to submit to such a stain on his fatherГўВҖВҷs honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ we live in times when there is much to which we must
submit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is precisely the fault of the age.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you undertake to reform it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, as far as I am personally concerned.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you are indeed exacting, my dear fellow!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I own it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you quite impervious to good advice?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot when it comes from a friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you account me that title?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly I do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, before going to Beauchamp with your witnesses, seek
further information on the subject.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom HaydГғВ©e.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, what can be the use of mixing a woman up in the affair?ГўВҖВ”what can
she do in it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe can declare to you, for example, that your father had no hand
whatever in the defeat and death of the vizier; or if by chance he had,
indeed, the misfortune toГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have told you, my dear count, that I would not for one moment admit
of such a proposition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou reject this means of information, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI doГўВҖВ”most decidedly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen let me offer one more word of advice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo so, then, but let it be the last.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not wish to hear it, perhaps?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, I request it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not take any witnesses with you when you go to BeauchampГўВҖВ”visit him
alone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat would be contrary to all custom.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour case is not an ordinary one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is your reason for advising me to go alone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause then the affair will rest between you and Beauchamp.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExplain yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will do so. If Beauchamp be disposed to retract, you ought at least
to give him the opportunity of doing it of his own free will,ГўВҖВ”the
satisfaction to you will be the same. If, on the contrary, he refuses
to do so, it will then be quite time enough to admit two strangers into
your secret.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey will not be strangers, they will be friends.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, but the friends of today are the enemies of tomorrow; Beauchamp,
for instance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo you recommendГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI recommend you to be prudent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you advise me to go alone to Beauchamp?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do, and I will tell you why. When you wish to obtain some concession
from a manГўВҖВҷs self-love, you must avoid even the appearance of wishing
to wound it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe you are right.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am glad of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I will go alone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo; but you would do better still by not going at all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo so, then; it will be a wiser plan than the first which you
proposed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut if, in spite of all my precautions, I am at last obliged to fight,
will you not be my second?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear viscount,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo gravely, ГўВҖВңyou must have seen
before today that at all times and in all places I have been at your
disposal, but the service which you have just demanded of me is one
which it is out of my power to render you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps you may know at some future period, and in the mean time I
request you to excuse my declining to put you in possession of my
reasons.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I will have Franz and ChГғВўteau-Renaud; they will be the very men
for it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo so, then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut if I do fight, you will surely not object to giving me a lesson or
two in shooting and fencing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat, too, is impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat a singular being you are!ГўВҖВ”you will not interfere in anything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are rightГўВҖВ”that is the principle on which I wish to act.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe will say no more about it, then. Good-bye, count.ГўВҖВқ

Morcerf took his hat, and left the room. He found his carriage at the
door, and doing his utmost to restrain his anger he went at once to
find Beauchamp, who was in his office. It was a gloomy, dusty-looking
apartment, such as journalistsГўВҖВҷ offices have always been from time
immemorial. The servant announced M. Albert de Morcerf. Beauchamp
repeated the name to himself, as though he could scarcely believe that
he had heard aright, and then gave orders for him to be admitted.
Albert entered.

Beauchamp uttered an exclamation of surprise on seeing his friend leap
over and trample under foot all the newspapers which were strewed about
the room.

ГўВҖВңThis way, this way, my dear Albert!ГўВҖВқ said he, holding out his hand to
the young man. ГўВҖВңAre you out of your senses, or do you come peaceably to
take breakfast with me? Try and find a seatГўВҖВ”there is one by that
geranium, which is the only thing in the room to remind me that there
are other leaves in the world besides leaves of paper.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBeauchamp,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңit is of your journal that I come to speak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed? What do you wish to say about it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI desire that a statement contained in it should be rectified.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo what do you refer? But pray sit down.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, with a cold and formal bow.

ГўВҖВңWill you now have the kindness to explain the nature of the statement
which has displeased you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn announcement has been made which implicates the honor of a member
of my family.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, much surprised; ГўВҖВңsurely you must be
mistaken.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe story sent you from Yanina.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYanina?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; really you appear to be totally ignorant of the cause which
brings me here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSuch is really the case, I assure you, upon my honor! Baptiste, give
me yesterdayГўВҖВҷs paper,ГўВҖВқ cried Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңHere, I have brought mine with me,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert.

Beauchamp took the paper, and read the article to which Albert pointed
in an undertone.

ГўВҖВңYou see it is a serious annoyance,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, when Beauchamp had
finished the perusal of the paragraph.

ГўВҖВңIs the officer referred to a relation of yours, then?ГўВҖВқ demanded the
journalist.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, blushing.

ГўВҖВңWell, what do you wish me to do for you?ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp mildly.

ГўВҖВңMy dear Beauchamp, I wish you to contradict this statement.ГўВҖВқ Beauchamp
looked at Albert with a benevolent expression.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthis matter will want a good deal of talking over; a
retractation is always a serious thing, you know. Sit down, and I will
read it again.ГўВҖВқ

Albert resumed his seat, and Beauchamp read, with more attention than
at first, the lines denounced by his friend.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Albert in a determined tone, ГўВҖВңyou see that your paper has
insulted a member of my family, and I insist on a retractation being
made.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou insist?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I insist.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPermit me to remind you that you are not in the Chamber, my dear
viscount.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNor do I wish to be there,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, rising. ГўВҖВңI repeat
that I am determined to have the announcement of yesterday
contradicted. You have known me long enough,ГўВҖВқ continued Albert, biting
his lips convulsively, for he saw that BeauchampГўВҖВҷs anger was beginning
to rise,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyou have been my friend, and therefore sufficiently intimate
with me to be aware that I am likely to maintain my resolution on this
point.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I have been your friend, Morcerf, your present manner of speaking
would almost lead me to forget that I ever bore that title. But wait a
moment, do not let us get angry, or at least not yet. You are irritated
and vexedГўВҖВ”tell me how this Fernand is related to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is merely my father,ГўВҖВқ said AlbertГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңM. Fernand Mondego, Count of
Morcerf, an old soldier who has fought in twenty battles and whose
honorable scars they would denounce as badges of disgrace.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it your father?ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңthat is quite another thing. Then
I can well understand your indignation, my dear Albert. I will look at
it again;ГўВҖВқ and he read the paragraph for the third time, laying a
stress on each word as he proceeded. ГўВҖВңBut the paper nowhere identifies
this Fernand with your father.ГўВҖВқ

40100m



ГўВҖВңNo; but the connection will be seen by others, and therefore I will
have the article contradicted.ГўВҖВқ

At the words _I will_, Beauchamp steadily raised his eyes to AlbertГўВҖВҷs
countenance, and then as gradually lowering them, he remained
thoughtful for a few moments.

ГўВҖВңYou will retract this assertion, will you not, Beauchamp?ГўВҖВқ said Albert
with increased though stifled anger.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңImmediately?ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңWhen I am convinced that the statement is false.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe thing is worth looking into, and I will take pains to investigate
the matter thoroughly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what is there to investigate, sir?ГўВҖВқ said Albert, enraged beyond
measure at BeauchampГўВҖВҷs last remark. ГўВҖВңIf you do not believe that it is
my father, say so immediately; and if, on the contrary, you believe it
to be him, state your reasons for doing so.ГўВҖВқ

Beauchamp looked at Albert with the smile which was so peculiar to him,
and which in its numerous modifications served to express every varied
emotion of his mind.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied he, ГўВҖВңif you came to me with the idea of demanding
satisfaction, you should have gone at once to the point, and not have
entertained me with the idle conversation to which I have been
patiently listening for the last half hour. Am I to put this
construction on your visit?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, if you will not consent to retract that infamous calumny.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait a momentГўВҖВ”no threats, if you please, M. Fernand Mondego, Vicomte
de Morcerf; I never allow them from my enemies, and therefore shall not
put up with them from my friends. You insist on my contradicting the
article relating to General Fernand, an article with which, I assure
you on my word of honor, I had nothing whatever to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I insist on it,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, whose mind was beginning to get
bewildered with the excitement of his feelings.

ГўВҖВңAnd if I refuse to retract, you wish to fight, do you?ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp
in a calm tone.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, raising his voice.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңhere is my answer, my dear sir. The article
was not inserted by meГўВҖВ”I was not even aware of it; but you have, by the
step you have taken, called my attention to the paragraph in question,
and it will remain until it shall be either contradicted or confirmed
by someone who has a right to do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, rising, ГўВҖВңI will do myself the honor of sending my
seconds to you, and you will be kind enough to arrange with them the
place of meeting and the weapons.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly, my dear sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd this evening, if you please, or tomorrow at the latest, we will
meet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, I will be on the ground at the proper time; but in my opinion
(and I have a right to dictate the preliminaries, as it is I who have
received the provocation)ГўВҖВ”in my opinion the time ought not to be yet. I
know you to be well skilled in the management of the sword, while I am
only moderately so; I know, too, that you are a good marksmanГўВҖВ”there we
are about equal. I know that a duel between us two would be a serious
affair, because you are brave, and I am brave also. I do not therefore
wish either to kill you, or to be killed myself without a cause. Now, I
am going to put a question to you, and one very much to the purpose
too. Do you insist on this retractation so far as to kill me if I do
not make it, although I have repeated more than once, and affirmed on
my honor, that I was ignorant of the thing with which you charge me,
and although I still declare that it is impossible for anyone but you
to recognize the Count of Morcerf under the name of Fernand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI maintain my original resolution.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, my dear sir; then I consent to cut throats with you. But I
require three weeksГўВҖВҷ preparation; at the end of that time I shall come
and say to you, ГўВҖВҳThe assertion is false, and I retract it,ГўВҖВҷ or ГўВҖВҳThe
assertion is true,ГўВҖВҷ when I shall immediately draw the sword from its
sheath, or the pistols from the case, whichever you please.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThree weeks!ГўВҖВқ cried Albert; ГўВҖВңthey will pass as slowly as three
centuries when I am all the time suffering dishonor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHad you continued to remain on amicable terms with me, I should have
said, ГўВҖВҳPatience, my friend;ГўВҖВҷ but you have constituted yourself my
enemy, therefore I say, ГўВҖВҳWhat does that signify to me, sir?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, let it be three weeks then,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf; ГўВҖВңbut remember, at the
expiration of that time no delay or subterfuge will justify you inГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Albert de Morcerf,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, rising in his turn, ГўВҖВңI cannot
throw you out of window for three weeksГўВҖВ”that is to say, for twenty-four
days to comeГўВҖВ”nor have you any right to split my skull open till that
time has elapsed. Today is the 29th of August; the 21st of September
will, therefore, be the conclusion of the term agreed on, and till that
time arrivesГўВҖВ”and it is the advice of a gentleman which I am about to
give youГўВҖВ”till then we will refrain from growling and barking like two
dogs chained within sight of each other.ГўВҖВқ

When he had concluded his speech, Beauchamp bowed coldly to Albert,
turned his back upon him, and went to the press-room. Albert vented his
anger on a pile of newspapers, which he sent flying all over the office
by switching them violently with his stick; after which ebullition he
departedГўВҖВ”not, however, without walking several times to the door of the
press-room, as if he had half a mind to enter.

40104m



While Albert was lashing the front of his carriage in the same manner
that he had the newspapers which were the innocent agents of his
discomfiture, as he was crossing the barrier he perceived Morrel, who
was walking with a quick step and a bright eye. He was passing the
Chinese Baths, and appeared to have come from the direction of the
Porte Saint-Martin, and to be going towards the Madeleine.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, ГўВҖВңthere goes a happy man!ГўВҖВқ And it so happened Albert
was not mistaken in his opinion.



 Chapter 79. The Lemonade

Morrel was, in fact, very happy. M. Noirtier had just sent for him, and
he was in such haste to know the reason of his doing so that he had not
stopped to take a cab, placing infinitely more dependence on his own
two legs than on the four legs of a cab-horse. He had therefore set off
at a furious rate from the Rue Meslay, and was hastening with rapid
strides in the direction of the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©.

Morrel advanced with a firm, manly tread, and poor Barrois followed him
as he best might. Morrel was only thirty-one, Barrois was sixty years
of age; Morrel was deeply in love, and Barrois was dying with heat and
exertion. These two men, thus opposed in age and interests, resembled
two parts of a triangle, presenting the extremes of separation, yet
nevertheless possessing their point of union. This point of union was
Noirtier, and it was he who had just sent for Morrel, with the request
that the latter would lose no time in coming to himГўВҖВ”a command which
Morrel obeyed to the letter, to the great discomfiture of Barrois. On
arriving at the house, Morrel was not even out of breath, for love
lends wings to our desires; but Barrois, who had long forgotten what it
was to love, was sorely fatigued by the expedition he had been
constrained to use.

The old servant introduced Morrel by a private entrance, closed the
door of the study, and soon the rustling of a dress announced the
arrival of Valentine. She looked marvellously beautiful in her deep
mourning dress, and Morrel experienced such intense delight in gazing
upon her that he felt as if he could almost have dispensed with the
conversation of her grandfather.

But the easy-chair of the old man was heard rolling along the floor,
and he soon made his appearance in the room. Noirtier acknowledged by a
look of extreme kindness and benevolence the thanks which Morrel
lavished on him for his timely intervention on behalf of Valentine and
himselfГўВҖВ”an intervention which had saved them from despair. Morrel then
cast on the invalid an interrogative look as to the new favor which he
designed to bestow on him. Valentine was sitting at a little distance
from them, timidly awaiting the moment when she should be obliged to
speak. Noirtier fixed his eyes on her.

ГўВҖВңAm I to say what you told me?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine. Noirtier made a sign
that she was to do so.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine to the young man, who was regarding
her with the most intense interest, ГўВҖВңmy grandfather, M. Noirtier, had a
thousand things to say, which he told me three days ago; and now, he
has sent for you, that I may repeat them to you. I will repeat them,
then; and since he has chosen me as his interpreter, I will be faithful
to the trust, and will not alter a word of his intentions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I am listening with the greatest impatience,ГўВҖВқ replied the young
man; ГўВҖВңspeak, I beg of you.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine cast down her eyes; this was a good omen for Morrel, for he
knew that nothing but happiness could have the power of thus overcoming
Valentine.

ГўВҖВңMy grandfather intends leaving this house,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңand Barrois is
looking out for suitable apartments for him in another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you, Mademoiselle de Villefort,ГўВҖВ”you, who are necessary to M.
NoirtierГўВҖВҷs happinessГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ interrupted Valentine; ГўВҖВңI shall not leave my grandfather,ГўВҖВ”that is
an understood thing between us. My apartment will be close to his. Now,
M. de Villefort must either give his consent to this plan or his
refusal; in the first case, I shall leave directly, and in the second,
I shall wait till I am of age, which will be in about ten months. Then
I shall be free, I shall have an independent fortune, andГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңAnd what?ГўВҖВқ demanded Morrel.

ГўВҖВңAnd with my grandfatherГўВҖВҷs consent I shall fulfil the promise which I
have made you.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine pronounced these last few words in such a low tone, that
nothing but MorrelГўВҖВҷs intense interest in what she was saying could have
enabled him to hear them.

ГўВҖВңHave I not explained your wishes, grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine,
addressing Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ looked the old man.

ГўВҖВңOnce under my grandfatherГўВҖВҷs roof, M. Morrel can visit me in the
presence of my good and worthy protector, if we still feel that the
union we contemplated will be likely to insure our future comfort and
happiness; in that case I shall expect M. Morrel to come and claim me
at my own hands. But, alas, I have heard it said that hearts inflamed
by obstacles to their desire grew cold in time of security; I trust we
shall never find it so in our experience!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, almost tempted to throw himself on his knees before
Noirtier and Valentine, and to adore them as two superior beings, ГўВҖВңwhat
have I ever done in my life to merit such unbounded happiness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUntil that time,ГўВҖВқ continued the young girl in a calm and
self-possessed tone of voice, ГўВҖВңwe will conform to circumstances, and be
guided by the wishes of our friends, so long as those wishes do not
tend finally to separate us; in a word, and I repeat it, because it
expresses all I wish to convey,ГўВҖВ”we will wait.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I swear to make all the sacrifices which this word imposes, sir,ГўВҖВқ
said Morrel, ГўВҖВңnot only with resignation, but with cheerfulness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTherefore,ГўВҖВқ continued Valentine, looking playfully at Maximilian, ГўВҖВңno
more inconsiderate actionsГўВҖВ”no more rash projects; for you surely would
not wish to compromise one who from this day regards herself as
destined, honorably and happily, to bear your name?ГўВҖВқ

Morrel looked obedience to her commands. Noirtier regarded the lovers
with a look of ineffable tenderness, while Barrois, who had remained in
the room in the character of a man privileged to know everything that
passed, smiled on the youthful couple as he wiped the perspiration from
his bald forehead.

ГўВҖВңHow hot you look, my good Barrois,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine.

ГўВҖВңAh, I have been running very fast, mademoiselle, but I must do M.
Morrel the justice to say that he ran still faster.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier directed their attention to a waiter, on which was placed a
decanter containing lemonade and a glass. The decanter was nearly full,
with the exception of a little, which had been already drunk by M.
Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңCome, Barrois,ГўВҖВқ said the young girl, ГўВҖВңtake some of this lemonade; I
see you are coveting a good draught of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe fact is, mademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ said Barrois, ГўВҖВңI am dying with thirst, and
since you are so kind as to offer it me, I cannot say I should at all
object to drinking your health in a glass of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake some, then, and come back immediately.ГўВҖВқ

Barrois took away the waiter, and hardly was he outside the door, which
in his haste he forgot to shut, than they saw him throw back his head
and empty to the very dregs the glass which Valentine had filled.
Valentine and Morrel were exchanging their adieux in the presence of
Noirtier when a ring was heard at the door-bell. It was the signal of a
visit. Valentine looked at her watch.

ГўВҖВңIt is past noon,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңand today is Saturday; I dare say it is
the doctor, grandpapa.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier looked his conviction that she was right in her supposition.

ГўВҖВңHe will come in here, and M. Morrel had better go,ГўВҖВ”do you not think
so, grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ signed the old man.

ГўВҖВңBarrois,ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine, ГўВҖВңBarrois!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am coming, mademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ replied he.

ГўВҖВңBarrois will open the door for you,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, addressing
Morrel. ГўВҖВңAnd now remember one thing, Monsieur Officer, that my
grandfather commands you not to take any rash or ill-advised step which
would be likely to compromise our happiness.ГўВҖВқ

40108m



ГўВҖВңI promised him to wait,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel; ГўВҖВңand I will wait.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment Barrois entered. ГўВҖВңWho rang?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine.

ГўВҖВңDoctor dГўВҖВҷAvrigny,ГўВҖВқ said Barrois, staggering as if he would fall.

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter, Barrois?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine. The old man did not
answer, but looked at his master with wild staring eyes, while with his
cramped hand he grasped a piece of furniture to enable him to stand
upright.

ГўВҖВңHe is going to fall!ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel.

The rigors which had attacked Barrois gradually increased, the features
of the face became quite altered, and the convulsive movement of the
muscles appeared to indicate the approach of a most serious nervous
disorder. Noirtier, seeing Barrois in this pitiable condition, showed
by his looks all the various emotions of sorrow and sympathy which can
animate the heart of man. Barrois made some steps towards his master.

ГўВҖВңAh, sir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңtell me what is the matter with me. I am
sufferingГўВҖВ”I cannot see. A thousand fiery darts are piercing my brain.
Ah, donГўВҖВҷt touch me, pray donГўВҖВҷt.ГўВҖВқ

By this time his haggard eyes had the appearance of being ready to
start from their sockets; his head fell back, and the lower extremities
of the body began to stiffen. Valentine uttered a cry of horror; Morrel
took her in his arms, as if to defend her from some unknown danger.

ГўВҖВңM. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny,ГўВҖВқ cried she, in a stifled voice. ГўВҖВңHelp,
help!ГўВҖВқ

Barrois turned round and with a great effort stumbled a few steps, then
fell at the feet of Noirtier, and resting his hand on the knee of the
invalid, exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңMy master, my good master!ГўВҖВқ

At this moment M. de Villefort, attracted by the noise, appeared on the
threshold. Morrel relaxed his hold of Valentine, and retreating to a
distant corner of the room remained half hidden behind a curtain. Pale
as if he had been gazing on a serpent, he fixed his terrified eye on
the agonized sufferer.

Noirtier, burning with impatience and terror, was in despair at his
utter inability to help his old domestic, whom he regarded more in the
light of a friend than a servant. One might by the fearful swelling of
the veins of his forehead and the contraction of the muscles round the
eye, trace the terrible conflict which was going on between the living
energetic mind and the inanimate and helpless body.

Barrois, his features convulsed, his eyes suffused with blood, and his
head thrown back, was lying at full length, beating the floor with his
hands, while his legs had become so stiff, that they looked as if they
would break rather than bend. A slight appearance of foam was visible
around the mouth, and he breathed painfully, and with extreme
difficulty.

Villefort seemed stupefied with astonishment, and remained gazing
intently on the scene before him without uttering a word. He had not
seen Morrel. After a moment of dumb contemplation, during which his
face became pale and his hair seemed to stand on end, he sprang towards
the door, crying out:

ГўВҖВңDoctor, doctor! come instantly, pray come!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame, madame!ГўВҖВқ cried Valentine, calling her step-mother, and running
upstairs to meet her; ГўВҖВңcome quick, quick!ГўВҖВ”and bring your bottle of
smelling-salts with you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort in a harsh and
constrained tone.

ГўВҖВңOh! come! come!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut where is the doctor?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Villefort; ГўВҖВңwhere is he?ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort now deliberately descended the staircase. In one
hand she held her handkerchief, with which she appeared to be wiping
her face, and in the other a bottle of English smelling-salts. Her
first look on entering the room was at Noirtier, whose face,
independent of the emotion which such a scene could not fail of
producing, proclaimed him to be in possession of his usual health; her
second glance was at the dying man. She turned pale, and her eye passed
quickly from the servant and rested on the master.

ГўВҖВңIn the name of heaven, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңwhere is the doctor?
He was with you just now. You see this is a fit of apoplexy, and he
might be saved if he could but be bled!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas he eaten anything lately?ГўВҖВқ asked Madame de Villefort, eluding her
husbandГўВҖВҷs question.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ replied Valentine, ГўВҖВңhe has not even breakfasted. He has been
running very fast on an errand with which my grandfather charged him,
and when he returned, took nothing but a glass of lemonade.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңwhy did he not take wine? Lemonade was
a very bad thing for him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGrandpapaГўВҖВҷs bottle of lemonade was standing just by his side; poor
Barrois was very thirsty, and was thankful to drink anything he could
find.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort started. Noirtier looked at her with a glance of
the most profound scrutiny.

ГўВҖВңHe has such a short neck,ГўВҖВқ said she.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңI ask where is M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny? In GodГўВҖВҷs name
answer me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is with Edward, who is not quite well,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame de
Villefort, no longer being able to avoid answering.

Villefort rushed upstairs to fetch him.

ГўВҖВңTake this,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, giving her smelling-bottle to
Valentine. ГўВҖВңThey will, no doubt, bleed him; therefore I will retire,
for I cannot endure the sight of blood;ГўВҖВқ and she followed her husband
upstairs. Morrel now emerged from his hiding-place, where he had
remained quite unperceived, so great had been the general confusion.

ГўВҖВңGo away as quick as you can, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңand stay
till I send for you. Go.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel looked towards Noirtier for permission to retire. The old man,
who had preserved all his usual coolness, made a sign to him to do so.
The young man pressed ValentineГўВҖВҷs hand to his lips, and then left the
house by a back staircase.

At the same moment that he quitted the room, Villefort and the doctor
entered by an opposite door. Barrois was now showing signs of returning
consciousness. The crisis seemed past, a low moaning was heard, and he
raised himself on one knee. DГўВҖВҷAvrigny and Villefort laid him on a
couch.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you prescribe, doctor?ГўВҖВқ demanded Villefort.

ГўВҖВңGive me some water and ether. You have some in the house, have you
not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSend for some oil of turpentine and tartar emetic.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort immediately despatched a messenger. ГўВҖВңAnd now let everyone
retire.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMust I go too?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine timidly.

ГўВҖВңYes, mademoiselle, you especially,ГўВҖВқ replied the doctor abruptly.

Valentine looked at M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny with astonishment, kissed her
grandfather on the forehead, and left the room. The doctor closed the
door after her with a gloomy air.

ГўВҖВңLook, look, doctor,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңhe is quite coming round again;
I really do not think, after all, it is anything of consequence.ГўВҖВқ

M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny answered by a melancholy smile.

ГўВҖВңHow do you feel, Barrois?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңA little better, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you drink some of this ether and water?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will try; but donГўВҖВҷt touch me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I feel that if you were only to touch me with the tip of your
finger the fit would return.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDrink.ГўВҖВқ

Barrois took the glass, and, raising it to his purple lips, took about
half of the liquid offered him.

ГўВҖВңWhere do you suffer?ГўВҖВқ asked the doctor.

ГўВҖВңEverywhere. I feel cramps over my whole body.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you find any dazzling sensation before the eyes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAny noise in the ears?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrightful.ГўВҖВқ

40112m



ГўВҖВңWhen did you first feel that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңJust now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSuddenly?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, like a clap of thunder.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you feel nothing of it yesterday or the day before?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo drowsiness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat have you eaten today?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have eaten nothing; I only drank a glass of my masterГўВҖВҷs
lemonadeГўВҖВ”thatГўВҖВҷs all.ГўВҖВқ And Barrois turned towards Noirtier, who,
immovably fixed in his armchair, was contemplating this terrible scene
without allowing a word or a movement to escape him.

ГўВҖВңWhere is this lemonade?ГўВҖВқ asked the doctor eagerly.

ГўВҖВңDownstairs in the decanter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhereabouts downstairs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the kitchen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I go and fetch it, doctor?ГўВҖВқ inquired Villefort.

ГўВҖВңNo, stay here and try to make Barrois drink the rest of this glass of
ether and water. I will go myself and fetch the lemonade.ГўВҖВқ

DГўВҖВҷAvrigny bounded towards the door, flew down the back staircase, and
almost knocked down Madame de Villefort, in his haste, who was herself
going down to the kitchen. She cried out, but dГўВҖВҷAvrigny paid no
attention to her; possessed with but one idea, he cleared the last four
steps with a bound, and rushed into the kitchen, where he saw the
decanter about three parts empty still standing on the waiter, where it
had been left. He darted upon it as an eagle would seize upon its prey.
Panting with loss of breath, he returned to the room he had just left.
Madame de Villefort was slowly ascending the steps which led to her
room.

ГўВҖВңIs this the decanter you spoke of?ГўВҖВқ asked dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.

ГўВҖВңYes, doctor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs this the same lemonade of which you partook?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did it taste like?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt had a bitter taste.ГўВҖВқ

The doctor poured some drops of the lemonade into the palm of his hand,
put his lips to it, and after having rinsed his mouth as a man does
when he is tasting wine, he spat the liquor into the fireplace.

ГўВҖВңIt is no doubt the same,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңDid you drink some too, M.
Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd did you also discover a bitter taste?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, doctor,ГўВҖВқ cried Barrois, ГўВҖВңthe fit is coming on again. Oh, do
something for me.ГўВҖВқ The doctor flew to his patient.

ГўВҖВңThat emetic, VillefortГўВҖВ”see if it is coming.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort sprang into the passage, exclaiming, ГўВҖВңThe emetic! the
emetic!ГўВҖВ”is it come yet?ГўВҖВқ No one answered. The most profound terror
reigned throughout the house.

ГўВҖВңIf I had anything by means of which I could inflate the lungs,ГўВҖВқ said
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, looking around him, ГўВҖВңperhaps I might prevent suffocation.
But there is nothing which would do!ГўВҖВ”nothing!ГўВҖВқ

40114m



ГўВҖВңOh, sir,ГўВҖВқ cried Barrois, ГўВҖВңare you going to let me die without help?
Oh, I am dying! Oh, save me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA pen, a pen!ГўВҖВқ said the doctor. There was one lying on the table; he
endeavored to introduce it into the mouth of the patient, who, in the
midst of his convulsions, was making vain attempts to vomit; but the
jaws were so clenched that the pen could not pass them. This second
attack was much more violent than the first, and he had slipped from
the couch to the ground, where he was writhing in agony. The doctor
left him in this paroxysm, knowing that he could do nothing to
alleviate it, and, going up to Noirtier, said abruptly:

ГўВҖВңHow do you find yourself?ГўВҖВ”well?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you any weight on the chest; or does your stomach feel light and
comfortableГўВҖВ”eh?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you feel pretty much as you generally do after you have had the
dose which I am accustomed to give you every Sunday?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid Barrois make your lemonade?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas it you who asked him to drink some of it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas it M. de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was your granddaughter, then, was it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

A groan from Barrois, accompanied by a yawn which seemed to crack the
very jawbones, attracted the attention of M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny; he left M.
Noirtier, and returned to the sick man.

ГўВҖВңBarrois,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor, ГўВҖВңcan you speak?ГўВҖВқ Barrois muttered a few
unintelligible words. ГўВҖВңTry and make an effort to do so, my good man.ГўВҖВқ
said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny. Barrois reopened his bloodshot eyes.

ГўВҖВңWho made the lemonade?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you bring it to your master directly it was made?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou left it somewhere, then, in the meantime?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I left it in the pantry, because I was called away.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho brought it into this room, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle Valentine.ГўВҖВқ DГўВҖВҷAvrigny struck his forehead with his hand.

ГўВҖВңGracious heaven,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed he.

ГўВҖВңDoctor, doctor!ГўВҖВқ cried Barrois, who felt another fit coming.

ГўВҖВңWill they never bring that emetic?ГўВҖВқ asked the doctor.

ГўВҖВңHere is a glass with one already prepared,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, entering
the room.

ГўВҖВңWho prepared it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe chemist who came here with me.ГўВҖВқ

40116m



ГўВҖВңDrink it,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor to Barrois.

ГўВҖВңImpossible, doctor; it is too late; my throat is closing up. I am
choking! Oh, my heart! Ah, my head!ГўВҖВ”Oh, what agony!ГўВҖВ”Shall I suffer like
this long?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, friend,ГўВҖВқ replied the doctor, ГўВҖВңyou will soon cease to suffer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, I understand you,ГўВҖВқ said the unhappy man. ГўВҖВңMy God, have mercy upon
me!ГўВҖВқ and, uttering a fearful cry, Barrois fell back as if he had been
struck by lightning. DГўВҖВҷAvrigny put his hand to his heart, and placed a
glass before his lips.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңGo to the kitchen and get me some syrup of violets.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort went immediately.

ГўВҖВңDo not be alarmed, M. Noirtier,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny; ГўВҖВңI am going to take
my patient into the next room to bleed him; this sort of attack is very
frightful to witness.ГўВҖВқ

And taking Barrois under the arms, he dragged him into an adjoining
room; but almost immediately he returned to fetch the lemonade.
Noirtier closed his right eye.

ГўВҖВңYou want Valentine, do you not? I will tell them to send her to you.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort returned, and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny met him in the passage.

ГўВҖВңWell, how is he now?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңCome in here,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, and he took him into the chamber where
the sick man lay.

ГўВҖВңIs he still in a fit?ГўВҖВқ said the procureur.

ГўВҖВңHe is dead.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort drew back a few steps, and, clasping his hands, exclaimed,
with real amazement and sympathy, ГўВҖВңDead?ГўВҖВ”and so soon too!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, it is very soon,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor, looking at the corpse before
him; ГўВҖВңbut that ought not to astonish you; Monsieur and Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran died as soon. People die very suddenly in your house, M. de
Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ cried the magistrate, with an accent of horror and
consternation, ГўВҖВңare you still harping on that terrible idea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, sir; and I shall always do so,ГўВҖВқ replied dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңfor it has
never for one instant ceased to retain possession of my mind; and that
you may be quite sure I am not mistaken this time, listen well to what
I am going to say, M. de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

The magistrate trembled convulsively.

ГўВҖВңThere is a poison which destroys life almost without leaving any
perceptible traces. I know it well; I have studied it in all its forms
and in the effects which it produces. I recognized the presence of this
poison in the case of poor Barrois as well as in that of Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran. There is a way of detecting its presence. It restores the
blue color of litmus-paper reddened by an acid, and it turns syrup of
violets green. We have no litmus-paper, but, see, here they come with
the syrup of violets.ГўВҖВқ

The doctor was right; steps were heard in the passage. M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny
opened the door, and took from the hands of the chambermaid a cup which
contained two or three spoonfuls of the syrup, he then carefully closed
the door.

ГўВҖВңLook,ГўВҖВқ said he to the procureur, whose heart beat so loudly that it
might almost be heard, ГўВҖВңhere is in this cup some syrup of violets, and
this decanter contains the remainder of the lemonade of which M.
Noirtier and Barrois partook. If the lemonade be pure and inoffensive,
the syrup will retain its color; if, on the contrary, the lemonade be
drugged with poison, the syrup will become green. Look closely!ГўВҖВқ

The doctor then slowly poured some drops of the lemonade from the
decanter into the cup, and in an instant a light cloudy sediment began
to form at the bottom of the cup; this sediment first took a blue
shade, then from the color of sapphire it passed to that of opal, and
from opal to emerald. Arrived at this last hue, it changed no more. The
result of the experiment left no doubt whatever on the mind.

ГўВҖВңThe unfortunate Barrois has been poisoned,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңand I
will maintain this assertion before God and man.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort said nothing, but he clasped his hands, opened his haggard
eyes, and, overcome with his emotion, sank into a chair.



 Chapter 80. The Accusation

M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny soon restored the magistrate to consciousness, who had
looked like a second corpse in that chamber of death.

ГўВҖВңOh, death is in my house!ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort.

ГўВҖВңSay, rather, crime!ГўВҖВқ replied the doctor.

ГўВҖВңM. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny,ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, ГўВҖВңI cannot tell you all I feel at this
moment,ГўВҖВ”terror, grief, madness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, with an imposing calmness, ГўВҖВңbut I think it is
now time to act. I think it is time to stop this torrent of mortality.
I can no longer bear to be in possession of these secrets without the
hope of seeing the victims and society generally revenged.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort cast a gloomy look around him. ГўВҖВңIn my house,ГўВҖВқ murmured he,
ГўВҖВңin my house!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, magistrate,ГўВҖВқ said M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңshow yourself a man; as an
interpreter of the law, do honor to your profession by sacrificing your
selfish interests to it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou make me shudder, doctor. Do you talk of a sacrifice?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you then suspect anyone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI suspect no one; death raps at your doorГўВҖВ”it entersГўВҖВ”it goes, not
blindfolded, but circumspectly, from room to room. Well, I follow its
course, I track its passage; I adopt the wisdom of the ancients, and
feel my way, for my friendship for your family and my respect for you
are as a twofold bandage over my eyes; wellГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, speak, speak, doctor; I shall have courage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir, you have in your establishment, or in your family, perhaps,
one of the frightful monstrosities of which each century produces only
one. Locusta and Agrippina, living at the same time, were an exception,
and proved the determination of Providence to effect the entire ruin of
the Roman empire, sullied by so many crimes. Brunhilda and Fredegund
were the results of the painful struggle of civilization in its
infancy, when man was learning to control mind, were it even by an
emissary from the realms of darkness. All these women had been, or
were, beautiful. The same flower of innocence had flourished, or was
still flourishing, on their brow, that is seen on the brow of the
culprit in your house.ГўВҖВқ

40120m



Villefort shrieked, clasped his hands, and looked at the doctor with a
supplicating air. But the latter went on without pity:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳSeek whom the crime will profit,ГўВҖВҷ says an axiom of jurisprudence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoctor,ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, ГўВҖВңalas, doctor, how often has manГўВҖВҷs justice
been deceived by those fatal words. I know not why, but I feel that
this crimeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou acknowledge, then, the existence of the crime?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I see too plainly that it does exist. But it seems that it is
intended to affect me personally. I fear an attack myself, after all
these disasters.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, man!ГўВҖВқ murmured dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңthe most selfish of all animals, the
most personal of all creatures, who believes the earth turns, the sun
shines, and death strikes for him alone,ГўВҖВ”an ant cursing God from the
top of a blade of grass! And have those who have lost their lives lost
nothing?ГўВҖВ”M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran, Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, M. NoirtierГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow? M. Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; think you it was the poor servantГўВҖВҷs life was coveted? No, no;
like ShakespeareГўВҖВҷs Polonius, he died for another. It was Noirtier the
lemonade was intended forГўВҖВ”it is Noirtier, logically speaking, who drank
it. The other drank it only by accident, and, although Barrois is dead,
it was Noirtier whose death was wished for.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut why did it not kill my father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI told you one evening in the garden after Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs
deathГўВҖВ”because his system is accustomed to that very poison, and the
dose was trifling to him, which would be fatal to another; because no
one knows, not even the assassin, that, for the last twelve months, I
have given M. Noirtier brucine for his paralytic affection, while the
assassin is not ignorant, for he has proved that brucine is a violent
poison.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, have pityГўВҖВ”have pity!ГўВҖВқ murmured Villefort, wringing his hands.

ГўВҖВңFollow the culpritГўВҖВҷs steps; he first kills M. de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, doctor!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI would swear to it; what I heard of his symptoms agrees too well with
what I have seen in the other cases.ГўВҖВқ Villefort ceased to contend; he
only groaned. ГўВҖВңHe first kills M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran,ГўВҖВқ repeated the doctor,
ГўВҖВңthen Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran,ГўВҖВ”a double fortune to inherit.ГўВҖВқ Villefort
wiped the perspiration from his forehead. ГўВҖВңListen attentively.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ stammered Villefort, ГўВҖВңI do not lose a single word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Noirtier,ГўВҖВқ resumed M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny in the same pitiless tone,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңM.
Noirtier had once made a will against youГўВҖВ”against your familyГўВҖВ”in favor
of the poor, in fact; M. Noirtier is spared, because nothing is
expected from him. But he has no sooner destroyed his first will and
made a second, than, for fear he should make a third, he is struck
down. The will was made the day before yesterday, I believe; you see
there has been no time lost.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, mercy, M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo mercy, sir! The physician has a sacred mission on earth; and to
fulfil it he begins at the source of life, and goes down to the
mysterious darkness of the tomb. When crime has been committed, and
God, doubtless in anger, turns away his face, it is for the physician
to bring the culprit to justice.ГўВҖВқ

40122m



ГўВҖВңHave mercy on my child, sir,ГўВҖВқ murmured Villefort.

ГўВҖВңYou see it is yourself who have first named herГўВҖВ”you, her father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave pity on Valentine! Listen, it is impossible. I would as willingly
accuse myself! Valentine, whose heart is pure as a diamond or a lily!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo pity, procureur; the crime is fragrant. Mademoiselle herself packed
all the medicines which were sent to M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran; and M. de
Saint-MГғВ©ran is dead. Mademoiselle de Villefort prepared all the cooling
draughts which Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran took, and Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran is
dead. Mademoiselle de Villefort took from the hands of Barrois, who was
sent out, the lemonade which M. Noirtier had every morning, and he has
escaped by a miracle. Mademoiselle de Villefort is the culpritГўВҖВ”she is
the poisoner! To you, as the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, I denounce Mademoiselle
de Villefort, do your duty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoctor, I resist no longerГўВҖВ”I can no longer defend myselfГўВҖВ”I believe
you; but, for pityГўВҖВҷs sake, spare my life, my honor!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ replied the doctor, with increased vehemence, ГўВҖВңthere
are occasions when I dispense with all foolish human circumspection. If
your daughter had committed only one crime, and I saw her meditating
another, I would say ГўВҖВҳWarn her, punish her, let her pass the remainder
of her life in a convent, weeping and praying.ГўВҖВҷ If she had committed
two crimes, I would say, ГўВҖВҳHere, M. de Villefort, is a poison that the
prisoner is not acquainted with,ГўВҖВ”one that has no known antidote, quick
as thought, rapid as lightning, mortal as the thunderbolt; give her
that poison, recommending her soul to God, and save your honor and your
life, for it is yours she aims at; and I can picture her approaching
your pillow with her hypocritical smiles and her sweet exhortations.
Woe to you, M. de Villefort, if you do not strike first!ГўВҖВҷ This is what
I would say had she only killed two persons but she has seen three
deaths,ГўВҖВ”has contemplated three murdered persons,ГўВҖВ”has knelt by three
corpses! To the scaffold with the poisonerГўВҖВ”to the scaffold! Do you talk
of your honor? Do what I tell you, and immortality awaits you!ГўВҖВқ

Villefort fell on his knees.

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңI have not the strength of mind you have, or rather
that which you would not have, if instead of my daughter Valentine your
daughter Madeleine were concerned.ГўВҖВқ The doctor turned pale. ГўВҖВңDoctor,
every son of woman is born to suffer and to die; I am content to suffer
and to await death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBeware,ГўВҖВқ said M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңit may come slowly; you will see it
approach after having struck your father, your wife, perhaps your son.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort, suffocating, pressed the doctorГўВҖВҷs arm.

40124m



ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ cried he; ГўВҖВңpity meГўВҖВ”help me! No, my daughter is not guilty. If
you drag us both before a tribunal I will still say, ГўВҖВҳNo, my daughter
is not guilty;ГўВҖВ”there is no crime in my house. I will not acknowledge a
crime in my house; for when crime enters a dwelling, it is like
deathГўВҖВ”it does not come alone.ГўВҖВҷ Listen. What does it signify to you if I
am murdered? Are you my friend? Are you a man? Have you a heart? No,
you are a physician! Well, I tell you I will not drag my daughter
before a tribunal, and give her up to the executioner! The bare idea
would kill meГўВҖВ”would drive me like a madman to dig my heart out with my
finger-nails! And if you were mistaken, doctorГўВҖВ”if it were not my
daughterГўВҖВ”if I should come one day, pale as a spectre, and say to you,
ГўВҖВҳAssassin, you have killed my child!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”holdГўВҖВ”if that should happen,
although I am a Christian, M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, I should kill myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor, after a momentГўВҖВҷs silence, ГўВҖВңI will wait.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort looked at him as if he had doubted his words.

ГўВҖВңOnly,ГўВҖВқ continued M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, with a slow and solemn tone, ГўВҖВңif anyone
falls ill in your house, if you feel yourself attacked, do not send for
me, for I will come no more. I will consent to share this dreadful
secret with you, but I will not allow shame and remorse to grow and
increase in my conscience, as crime and misery will in your house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you abandon me, doctor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, for I can follow you no farther, and I only stop at the foot of
the scaffold. Some further discovery will be made, which will bring
this dreadful tragedy to a close. Adieu.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI entreat you, doctor!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll the horrors that disturb my thoughts make your house odious and
fatal. Adieu, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne wordГўВҖВ”one single word more, doctor! You go, leaving me in all the
horror of my situation, after increasing it by what you have revealed
to me. But what will be reported of the sudden death of the poor old
servant?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny; ГўВҖВңwe will return.ГўВҖВқ

The doctor went out first, followed by M. de Villefort. The terrified
servants were on the stairs and in the passage where the doctor would
pass.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny to Villefort, so loud that all might hear, ГўВҖВңpoor
Barrois has led too sedentary a life of late; accustomed formerly to
ride on horseback, or in the carriage, to the four corners of Europe,
the monotonous walk around that armchair has killed himГўВҖВ”his blood has
thickened. He was stout, had a short, thick neck; he was attacked with
apoplexy, and I was called in too late. By the way,ГўВҖВқ added he in a low
tone, ГўВҖВңtake care to throw away that cup of syrup of violets in the
ashes.ГўВҖВқ

The doctor, without shaking hands with Villefort, without adding a word
to what he had said, went out, amid the tears and lamentations of the
whole household. The same evening all VillefortГўВҖВҷs servants, who had
assembled in the kitchen, and had a long consultation, came to tell
Madame de Villefort that they wished to leave. No entreaty, no
proposition of increased wages, could induce them to remain; to every
argument they replied, ГўВҖВңWe must go, for death is in this house.ГўВҖВқ

They all left, in spite of prayers and entreaties, testifying their
regret at leaving so good a master and mistress, and especially
Mademoiselle Valentine, so good, so kind, and so gentle.

Villefort looked at Valentine as they said this. She was in tears, and,
strange as it was, in spite of the emotions he felt at the sight of
these tears, he looked also at Madame de Villefort, and it appeared to
him as if a slight gloomy smile had passed over her thin lips, like a
meteor seen passing inauspiciously between two clouds in a stormy sky.



 Chapter 81. The Room of the Retired Baker

The evening of the day on which the Count of Morcerf had left DanglarsГўВҖВҷ
house with feelings of shame and anger at the rejection of the
projected alliance, M. Andrea Cavalcanti, with curled hair, moustaches
in perfect order, and white gloves which fitted admirably, had entered
the courtyard of the bankerГўВҖВҷs house in Rue de la ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin. He
had not been more than ten minutes in the drawing-room before he drew
Danglars aside into the recess of a bow-window, and, after an ingenious
preamble, related to him all his anxieties and cares since his noble
fatherГўВҖВҷs departure. He acknowledged the extreme kindness which had been
shown him by the bankerГўВҖВҷs family, in which he had been received as a
son, and where, besides, his warmest affections had found an object on
which to centre in Mademoiselle Danglars.

Danglars listened with the most profound attention; he had expected
this declaration for the last two or three days, and when at last it
came his eyes glistened as much as they had lowered on listening to
Morcerf. He would not, however, yield immediately to the young manГўВҖВҷs
request, but made a few conscientious objections.

ГўВҖВңAre you not rather young, M. Andrea, to think of marrying?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think not, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied M. Cavalcanti; ГўВҖВңin Italy the nobility
generally marry young. Life is so uncertain, that we ought to secure
happiness while it is within our reach.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңin case your proposals, which do me honor,
are accepted by my wife and daughter, by whom shall the preliminary
arrangements be settled? So important a negotiation should, I think, be
conducted by the respective fathers of the young people.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, my father is a man of great foresight and prudence. Thinking that
I might wish to settle in France, he left me at his departure, together
with the papers establishing my identity, a letter promising, if he
approved of my choice, 150,000 livres per annum from the day I was
married. So far as I can judge, I suppose this to be a quarter of my
fatherГўВҖВҷs revenue.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңhave always intended giving my daughter 500,000
francs as her dowry; she is, besides, my sole heiress.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll would then be easily arranged if the baroness and her daughter are
willing. We should command an annuity of 175,000 livres. Supposing,
also, I should persuade the marquis to give me my capital, which is not
likely, but still is possible, we would place these two or three
millions in your hands, whose talent might make it realize ten per
cent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI never give more than four per cent, and generally only three and a
half; but to my son-in-law I would give five, and we would share the
profits.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery good, father-in-law,ГўВҖВқ said Cavalcanti, yielding to his low-born
nature, which would escape sometimes through the aristocratic gloss
with which he sought to conceal it. Correcting himself immediately, he
said, ГўВҖВңExcuse me, sir; hope alone makes me almost mad,ГўВҖВ”what will not
reality do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, who, on his part, did not perceive how soon the
conversation, which was at first disinterested, was turning to a
business transaction, ГўВҖВңthere is, doubtless, a part of your fortune your
father could not refuse you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich?ГўВҖВқ asked the young man.

ГўВҖВңThat you inherit from your mother.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTruly, from my mother, Leonora Corsinari.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow much may it amount to?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңI assure you I have never given the
subject a thought, but I suppose it must have been at least two
millions.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars felt as much overcome with joy as the miser who finds a lost
treasure, or as the shipwrecked mariner who feels himself on solid
ground instead of in the abyss which he expected would swallow him up.

ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, bowing to the banker respectfully, ГўВҖВңmay I
hope?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou may not only hope,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңbut consider it a settled
thing, if no obstacle arises on your part.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am, indeed, rejoiced,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars thoughtfully, ГўВҖВңhow is it that your patron, M. de
Monte Cristo, did not make his proposal for you?ГўВҖВқ

Andrea blushed imperceptibly.

ГўВҖВңI have just left the count, sir,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңhe is, doubtless, a
delightful man but inconceivably peculiar in his ideas. He esteems me
highly. He even told me he had not the slightest doubt that my father
would give me the capital instead of the interest of my property. He
has promised to use his influence to obtain it for me; but he also
declared that he never had taken on himself the responsibility of
making proposals for another, and he never would. I must, however, do
him the justice to add that he assured me if ever he had regretted the
repugnance he felt to such a step it was on this occasion, because he
thought the projected union would be a happy and suitable one. Besides,
if he will do nothing officially, he will answer any questions you
propose to him. And now,ГўВҖВқ continued he, with one of his most charming
smiles, ГўВҖВңhaving finished talking to the father-in-law, I must address
myself to the banker.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what may you have to say to him?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, laughing in his
turn.

ГўВҖВңThat the day after tomorrow I shall have to draw upon you for about
four thousand francs; but the count, expecting my bachelorГўВҖВҷs revenue
could not suffice for the coming monthГўВҖВҷs outlay, has offered me a draft
for twenty thousand francs. It bears his signature, as you see, which
is all-sufficient.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBring me a million such as that,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңI shall be well
pleased,ГўВҖВқ putting the draft in his pocket. ГўВҖВңFix your own hour for
tomorrow, and my cashier shall call on you with a check for eighty
thousand francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt ten oГўВҖВҷclock then, if you please; I should like it early, as I am
going into the country tomorrow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, at ten oГўВҖВҷclock; you are still at the HГғВҙtel des Princes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

The following morning, with the bankerГўВҖВҷs usual punctuality, the eighty
thousand francs were placed in the young manГўВҖВҷs hands, as he was on the
point of starting, after having left two hundred francs for Caderousse.
He went out chiefly to avoid this dangerous enemy, and returned as late
as possible in the evening.

But scarcely had he stepped out of his carriage when the porter met him
with a parcel in his hand.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthat man has been here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat man?ГўВҖВқ said Andrea carelessly, apparently forgetting him whom he
but too well recollected.

ГўВҖВңHim to whom your excellency pays that little annuity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңmy fatherГўВҖВҷs old servant. Well, you gave him the two
hundred francs I had left for him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency.ГўВҖВқ Andrea had expressed a wish to be thus
addressed. ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ continued the porter, ГўВҖВңhe would not take them.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea turned pale, but as it was dark his pallor was not perceptible.
ГўВҖВңWhat? he would not take them?ГўВҖВқ said he with slight emotion.

40130m



ГўВҖВңNo, he wished to speak to your excellency; I told him you were gone
out, and after some dispute he believed me and gave me this letter,
which he had brought with him already sealed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGive it me,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, and he read by the light of his
carriage-lamp:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYou know where I live; I expect you tomorrow morning at nine
oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Andrea examined it carefully, to ascertain if the letter had been
opened, or if any indiscreet eyes had seen its contents; but it was so
carefully folded, that no one could have read it, and the seal was
perfect.

ГўВҖВңVery well,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңPoor man, he is a worthy creature.ГўВҖВқ He left the
porter to ponder on these words, not knowing which most to admire, the
master or the servant.

ГўВҖВңTake out the horses quickly, and come up to me,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea to his
groom. In two seconds the young man had reached his room and burnt
CaderousseГўВҖВҷs letter. The servant entered just as he had finished.

ГўВҖВңYou are about my height, Pierre,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңI have that honor, your excellency.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou had a new livery yesterday?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have an engagement with a pretty little girl for this evening, and
do not wish to be known; lend me your livery till tomorrow. I may
sleep, perhaps, at an inn.ГўВҖВқ

Pierre obeyed. Five minutes after, Andrea left the hotel, completely
disguised, took a cabriolet, and ordered the driver to take him to the
Cheval Rouge, at Picpus. The next morning he left that inn as he had
left the HГғВҙtel des Princes, without being noticed, walked down the
Faubourg Saint-Antoine, along the boulevard to Rue MГғВ©nilmontant, and
stopping at the door of the third house on the left looked for someone
of whom to make inquiry in the porterГўВҖВҷs absence.

ГўВҖВңFor whom are you looking, my fine fellow?ГўВҖВқ asked the fruiteress on the
opposite side.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur Pailletin, if you please, my good woman,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea.

ГўВҖВңA retired baker?ГўВҖВқ asked the fruiteress.

ГўВҖВңExactly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe lives at the end of the yard, on the left, on the third story.ГўВҖВқ

40132m



Andrea went as she directed him, and on the third floor he found a
hareГўВҖВҷs paw, which, by the hasty ringing of the bell, it was evident he
pulled with considerable ill-temper. A moment after CaderousseГўВҖВҷs face
appeared at the grating in the door.

ГўВҖВңAh! you are punctual,ГўВҖВқ said he, as he drew back the door.

ГўВҖВңConfound you and your punctuality!ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, throwing himself into
a chair in a manner which implied that he would rather have flung it at
the head of his host.

ГўВҖВңCome, come, my little fellow, donГўВҖВҷt be angry. See, I have thought
about youГўВҖВ”look at the good breakfast we are going to have; nothing but
what you are fond of.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea, indeed, inhaled the scent of something cooking which was not
unwelcome to him, hungry as he was; it was that mixture of fat and
garlic peculiar to ProvenГғВ§al kitchens of an inferior order, added to
that of dried fish, and above all, the pungent smell of musk and
cloves. These odors escaped from two deep dishes which were covered and
placed on a stove, and from a copper pan placed in an old iron pot. In
an adjoining room Andrea saw also a tolerably clean table prepared for
two, two bottles of wine sealed, the one with green, the other with
yellow, a supply of brandy in a decanter, and a measure of fruit in a
cabbage-leaf, cleverly arranged on an earthenware plate.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you think of it, my little fellow?ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңAy, that
smells good! You know I used to be a good cook; do you recollect how
you used to lick your fingers? You were among the first who tasted any
of my dishes, and I think you relished them tolerably.ГўВҖВқ While speaking,
Caderousse went on peeling a fresh supply of onions.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ill-temperedly, ГўВҖВңby my faith, if it was only to
breakfast with you, that you disturbed me, I wish the devil had taken
you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy boy,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse sententiously, ГўВҖВңone can talk while eating.
And then, you ungrateful being, you are not pleased to see an old
friend? I am weeping with joy.ГўВҖВқ

He was truly crying, but it would have been difficult to say whether
joy or the onions produced the greatest effect on the lachrymal glands
of the old innkeeper of the Pont-du-Gard.

ГўВҖВңHold your tongue, hypocrite,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea; ГўВҖВңyou love me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I do, or may the devil take me. I know it is a weakness,ГўВҖВқ said
Caderousse, ГўВҖВңbut it overpowers me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd yet it has not prevented your sending for me to play me some
trick.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, wiping his large knife on his apron, ГўВҖВңif I did
not like you, do you think I should endure the wretched life you lead
me? Think for a moment. You have your servantГўВҖВҷs clothes onГўВҖВ”you
therefore keep a servant; I have none, and am obliged to prepare my own
meals. You abuse my cookery because you dine at the table dГўВҖВҷhГғВҙte of the
HГғВҙtel des Princes, or the CafГғВ© de Paris. Well, I too could keep a
servant; I too could have a tilbury; I too could dine where I like; but
why do I not? Because I would not annoy my little Benedetto. Come, just
acknowledge that I could, eh?ГўВҖВқ

This address was accompanied by a look which was by no means difficult
to understand.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңadmitting your love, why do you want me to
breakfast with you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat I may have the pleasure of seeing you, my little fellow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is the use of seeing me after we have made all our arrangements?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEh, dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңare wills ever made without
codicils? But you first came to breakfast, did you not? Well, sit down,
and let us begin with these pilchards, and this fresh butter; which I
have put on some vine-leaves to please you, wicked one. Ah, yes; you
look at my room, my four straw chairs, my images, three francs each.
But what do you expect? This is not the HГғВҙtel des Princes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, you are growing discontented, you are no longer happy; you, who
only wish to live like a retired baker.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse sighed.

ГўВҖВңWell, what have you to say? you have seen your dream realized.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI can still say it is a dream; a retired baker, my poor Benedetto, is
richГўВҖВ”he has an annuity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you have an annuity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have?ГўВҖВқ

40134m



ГўВҖВңYes, since I bring you your two hundred francs.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse shrugged his shoulders.

ГўВҖВңIt is humiliating,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthus to receive money given
grudgingly,ГўВҖВ”an uncertain supply which may soon fail. You see I am
obliged to economize, in case your prosperity should cease. Well, my
friend, fortune is inconstant, as the chaplain of the regiment said. I
know your prosperity is great, you rascal; you are to marry the
daughter of Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? of Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, to be sure; must I say Baron Danglars? I might as well say Count
Benedetto. He was an old friend of mine and if he had not so bad a
memory he ought to invite me to your wedding, seeing he came to mine.
Yes, yes, to mine; gad, he was not so proud then,ГўВҖВ”he was an under-clerk
to the good M. Morrel. I have dined many times with him and the Count
of Morcerf, so you see I have some high connections and were I to
cultivate them a little, we might meet in the same drawing-rooms.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, your jealousy represents everything to you in the wrong light.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is all very fine, Benedetto mio, but I know what I am saying.
Perhaps I may one day put on my best coat, and presenting myself at the
great gate, introduce myself. Meanwhile let us sit down and eat.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse set the example and attacked the breakfast with good
appetite, praising each dish he set before his visitor. The latter
seemed to have resigned himself; he drew the corks, and partook largely
of the fish with the garlic and fat.

ГўВҖВңAh, mate,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңyou are getting on better terms with your
old landlord!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFaith, yes,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea, whose hunger prevailed over every other
feeling.

ГўВҖВңSo you like it, you rogue?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much that I wonder how a man who can cook thus can complain of hard
living.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you see,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңall my happiness is marred by one
thought?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat I am dependent on another, I who have always gained my own
livelihood honestly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not let that disturb you, I have enough for two.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, truly; you may believe me if you will; at the end of every month I
am tormented by remorse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood Caderousse!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much so, that yesterday I would not take the two hundred francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you wished to speak to me; but was it indeed remorse, tell me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue remorse; and, besides, an idea had struck me.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea shuddered; he always did so at CaderousseГўВҖВҷs ideas.

ГўВҖВңIt is miserableГўВҖВ”do you see?ГўВҖВ”always to wait till the end of the month.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea philosophically, determined to watch his companion
narrowly, ГўВҖВңdoes not life pass in waiting? Do I, for instance, fare
better? Well, I wait patiently, do I not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; because instead of expecting two hundred wretched francs, you
expect five or six thousand, perhaps ten, perhaps even twelve, for you
take care not to let anyone know the utmost. Down there, you always had
little presents and Christmas-boxes, which you tried to hide from your
poor friend Caderousse. Fortunately he is a cunning fellow, that friend
Caderousse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere you are beginning again to ramble, to talk again and again of
the past! But what is the use of teasing me with going all over that
again?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you are only one-and-twenty, and can forget the past; I am fifty,
and am obliged to recollect it. But let us return to business.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was going to say, if I were in your placeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI would realizeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow would you realize?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI would ask for six monthsГўВҖВҷ in advance, under pretence of being able
to purchase a farm, then with my six months I would decamp.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, well,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңthat isnГўВҖВҷt a bad idea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңeat of my bread, and take my
advice; you will be none the worse off, physically or morally.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңwhy do you not act on the advice you gave me? Why
do you not realize a six monthsГўВҖВҷ, a yearГўВҖВҷs advance even, and retire to
Brussels? Instead of living the retired baker, you might live as a
bankrupt, using his privileges; that would be very good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut how the devil would you have me retire on twelve hundred francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, Caderousse,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңhow covetous you are! Two months ago
you were dying with hunger.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe appetite grows by what it feeds on,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, grinning and
showing his teeth, like a monkey laughing or a tiger growling. ГўВҖВңAnd,ГўВҖВқ
added he, biting off with his large white teeth an enormous mouthful of
bread, ГўВҖВңI have formed a plan.ГўВҖВқ

CaderousseГўВҖВҷs plans alarmed Andrea still more than his ideas; ideas were
but the germ, the plan was reality.

ГўВҖВңLet me see your plan; I dare say it is a pretty one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy not? Who formed the plan by which we left the establishment of
MГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”! eh? was it not I? and it was no bad one I believe, since here we
are!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not say,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea, ГўВҖВңthat you never make a good one; but
let us see your plan.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ pursued Caderousse, ГўВҖВңcan you without expending one sou, put me
in the way of getting fifteen thousand francs? No, fifteen thousand are
not enough,ГўВҖВ”I cannot again become an honest man with less than thirty
thousand francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea, dryly, ГўВҖВңno, I cannot.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not think you understand me,ГўВҖВқ replied Caderousse, calmly; ГўВҖВңI said
without your laying out a sou.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you want me to commit a robbery, to spoil all my good fortuneГўВҖВ”and
yours with mineГўВҖВ”and both of us to be dragged down there again?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt would make very little difference to me,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңif I
were retaken, I am a poor creature to live alone, and sometimes pine
for my old comrades; not like you, heartless creature, who would be
glad never to see them again.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea did more than tremble this time, he turned pale.

ГўВҖВңCome, Caderousse, no nonsense!ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt alarm yourself, my little Benedetto, but just point out to me
some means of gaining those thirty thousand francs without your
assistance, and I will contrive it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, IГўВҖВҷll seeГўВҖВ”IГўВҖВҷll try to contrive some way,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңMeanwhile you will raise my monthly allowance to five hundred francs,
my little fellow? I have a fancy, and mean to get a housekeeper.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you shall have your five hundred francs,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea; ГўВҖВңbut it
is very hard for me, my poor CaderousseГўВҖВ”you take advantageГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңwhen you have access to countless stores.ГўВҖВқ

One would have said Andrea anticipated his companionГўВҖВҷs words, so did
his eye flash like lightning, but it was but for a moment.

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңand my protector is very kind.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat dear protector,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңand how much does he give you
monthly?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFive thousand francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs many thousands as you give me hundreds! Truly, it is only bastards
who are thus fortunate. Five thousand francs per month! What the devil
can you do with all that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is no trouble to spend that; and I am like you, I want
capital.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCapital?ГўВҖВ”yesГўВҖВ”I understandГўВҖВ”everyone would like capital.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, and I shall get it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho will give it to youГўВҖВ”your prince?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, my prince. But unfortunately I must wait.ГўВҖВқ

40138m



ГўВҖВңYou must wait for what?ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңFor his death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe death of your prince?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause he has made his will in my favor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my honor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor how much?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor five hundred thousand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnly that? ItГўВҖВҷs little enough.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut so it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, it cannot be!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you my friend, Caderousse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, in life or death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I will tell you a secret.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut rememberГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! _pardieu!_ mute as a carp.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I thinkГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Andrea stopped and looked around.

ГўВҖВңYou think? Do not fear; _pardieu!_ we are alone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think I have discovered my father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour true father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot old Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, for he has gone again; the true one, as you say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd that father isГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, Caderousse, it is Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you understand, that explains all. He cannot acknowledge me
openly, it appears, but he does it through M. Cavalcanti, and gives him
fifty thousand francs for it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFifty thousand francs for being your father? I would have done it for
half that, for twenty thousand, for fifteen thousand; why did you not
think of me, ungrateful man?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid I know anything about it, when it was all done when I was down
there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, truly? And you say that by his willГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe leaves me five hundred thousand livres.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you sure of it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe showed it me; but that is not allГўВҖВ”there is a codicil, as I said
just now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProbably.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd in that codicil he acknowledges me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, the good father, the brave father, the very honest father!ГўВҖВқ said
Caderousse, twirling a plate in the air between his two hands.

ГўВҖВңNow, say if I conceal anything from you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, and your confidence makes you honorable in my opinion; and your
princely father, is he rich, very rich?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, he is that; he does not himself know the amount of his fortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it possible?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is evident enough to me, who am always at his house. The other day
a bankerГўВҖВҷs clerk brought him fifty thousand francs in a portfolio about
the size of your plate; yesterday his banker brought him a hundred
thousand francs in gold.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse was filled with wonder; the young manГўВҖВҷs words sounded to him
like metal, and he thought he could hear the rushing of cascades of
louis.

ГўВҖВңAnd you go into that house?ГўВҖВқ cried he briskly.

ГўВҖВңWhen I like.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse was thoughtful for a moment. It was easy to perceive he was
revolving some unfortunate idea in his mind. Then suddenly,ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңHow I should like to see all that,ГўВҖВқ cried he; ГўВҖВңhow beautiful it must
be!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is, in fact, magnificent,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңAnd does he not live in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, No. 30.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңNo. 30.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, a fine house standing alone, between a courtyard and a
garden,ГўВҖВ”you must know it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPossibly; but it is not the exterior I care for, it is the interior.
What beautiful furniture there must be in it!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you ever seen the Tuileries?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, it surpasses that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt must be worth oneГўВҖВҷs while to stoop, Andrea, when that good M. Monte
Cristo lets fall his purse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not worthwhile to wait for that,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea; ГўВҖВңmoney is as
plentiful in that house as fruit in an orchard.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you should take me there one day with you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow can I? On what plea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right; but you have made my mouth water. I must absolutely see
it; I shall find a way.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo nonsense, Caderousse!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will offer myself as floor-polisher.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe rooms are all carpeted.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, I must be contented to imagine it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is the best plan, believe me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTry, at least, to give me an idea of what it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow can I?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing is easier. Is it large?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMiddling.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow is it arranged?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFaith, I should require pen, ink, and paper to make a plan.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey are all here,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, briskly. He fetched from an old
secretaire a sheet of white paper and pen and ink. ГўВҖВңHere,ГўВҖВқ said
Caderousse, ГўВҖВңdraw me all that on the paper, my boy.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea took the pen with an imperceptible smile and began.

ГўВҖВңThe house, as I said, is between the court and the garden; in this
way, do you see?ГўВҖВқ Andrea drew the garden, the court and the house.

40142m



ГўВҖВңHigh walls?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot more than eight or ten feet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is not prudent,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңIn the court are orange-trees in pots, turf, and clumps of flowers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd no steel-traps?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe stables?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre on either side of the gate, which you see there.ГўВҖВқ And Andrea
continued his plan.

ГўВҖВңLet us see the ground floor,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңOn the ground floor, dining-room, two drawing-rooms, billiard-room,
staircase in the hall, and a little back staircase.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWindows?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMagnificent windows, so beautiful, so large, that I believe a man of
your size should pass through each frame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy the devil have they any stairs with such windows?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLuxury has everything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut shutters?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but they are never used. That Count of Monte Cristo is an
original, who loves to look at the sky even at night.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where do the servants sleep?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, they have a house to themselves. Picture to yourself a pretty
coach-house at the right-hand side where the ladders are kept. Well,
over that coach-house are the servantsГўВҖВҷ rooms, with bells corresponding
with the different apartments.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, _diable!_ bells did you say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, nothing! I only say they cost a load of money to hang, and what is
the use of them, I should like to know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere used to be a dog let loose in the yard at night, but it has been
taken to the house at Auteuil, to that you went to, you know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was saying to him only yesterday, ГўВҖВҳYou are imprudent, Monsieur
Count; for when you go to Auteuil and take your servants the house is
left unprotected.ГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВҳWell,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳwhat next?ГўВҖВҷ ГўВҖВҳWell, next, some day
you will be robbed.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did he answer?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe quietly said, ГўВҖВҳWhat do I care if I am?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAndrea, he has some secretaire with a spring.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow do you know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, which catches the thief in a trap and plays a tune. I was told
there were such at the last exhibition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has simply a mahogany secretaire, in which the key is always kept.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd he is not robbed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; his servants are all devoted to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere ought to be some money in that secretaire?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere may be. No one knows what there is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd where is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the first floor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSketch me the plan of that floor, as you have done of the ground
floor, my boy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is very simple.ГўВҖВқ Andrea took the pen. ГўВҖВңOn the first story, do you
see, there is the anteroom and the drawing-room; to the right of the
drawing-room, a library and a study; to the left, a bedroom and a
dressing-room. The famous secretaire is in the dressing-room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs there a window in the dressing-room?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo,ГўВҖВ”one here and one there.ГўВҖВқ Andrea sketched two windows in the room,
which formed an angle on the plan, and appeared as a small square added
to the rectangle of the bedroom. Caderousse became thoughtful.

ГўВҖВңDoes he often go to Auteuil?ГўВҖВқ added he.

ГўВҖВңTwo or three times a week. Tomorrow, for instance, he is going to
spend the day and night there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you sure of it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has invited me to dine there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThereГўВҖВҷs a life for you,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңa town house and a country
house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is what it is to be rich.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd shall you dine there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProbably.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen you dine there, do you sleep there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I like; I am at home there.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse looked at the young man, as if to get at the truth from the
bottom of his heart. But Andrea drew a cigar-case from his pocket, took
a Havana, quietly lit it, and began smoking.

ГўВҖВңWhen do you want your twelve hundred francs?ГўВҖВқ said he to Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңNow, if you have them.ГўВҖВқ Andrea took five-and-twenty louis from his
pocket.

ГўВҖВңYellow boys?ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңno, I thank you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you despise them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, I esteem them, but will not have them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou can change them, idiot; gold is worth five sous.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly; and he who changes them will follow friend Caderousse, lay
hands on him, and demand what farmers pay him their rent in gold. No
nonsense, my good fellow; silver simply, round coins with the head of
some monarch or other on them. Anybody may possess a five-franc piece.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut do you suppose I carry five hundred francs about with me? I should
want a porter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, leave them with your porter; he is to be trusted. I will call
for them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңToday?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, tomorrow; I shall not have time today.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, tomorrow I will leave them when I go to Auteuil.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMay I depend on it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I shall secure my housekeeper on the strength of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow see here, will that be all? Eh? And will you not torment me any
more?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse had become so gloomy that Andrea feared he should be obliged
to notice the change. He redoubled his gayety and carelessness.

ГўВҖВңHow sprightly you are,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңOne would say you were
already in possession of your property.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, unfortunately; but when I do obtain itГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall remember old friends, I can tell you that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, since you have such a good memory.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you want? It looks as if you were trying to fleece me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI? What an idea! I, who am going to give you another piece of good
advice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo leave behind you the diamond you have on your finger. We shall both
get into trouble. You will ruin both yourself and me by your folly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңHow? You put on a livery, you disguise yourself as a servant, and yet
keep a diamond on your finger worth four or five thousand francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou guess well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know something of diamonds; I have had some.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do well to boast of it,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, who, without becoming angry,
as Caderousse feared, at this new extortion, quietly resigned the ring.
Caderousse looked so closely at it that Andrea well knew that he was
examining to see if all the edges were perfect.

ГўВҖВңIt is a false diamond,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңYou are joking now,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea.

ГўВҖВңDo not be angry, we can try it.ГўВҖВқ Caderousse went to the window,
touched the glass with it, and found it would cut.

ГўВҖВң_Confiteor!_ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, putting the diamond on his little
finger; ГўВҖВңI was mistaken; but those thieves of jewellers imitate so well
that it is no longer worthwhile to rob a jewellerГўВҖВҷs shopГўВҖВ”it is another
branch of industry paralyzed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you finished?ГўВҖВқ said Andrea,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңdo you want anything more?ГўВҖВ”will you
have my waistcoat or my hat? Make free, now you have begun.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; you are, after all, a good companion; I will not detain you, and
will try to cure myself of my ambition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut take care the same thing does not happen to you in selling the
diamond you feared with the gold.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall not sell itГўВҖВ”do not fear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at least till the day after tomorrow,ГўВҖВқ thought the young man.

ГўВҖВңHappy rogue,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңyou are going to find your servants,
your horses, your carriage, and your betrothed!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңWell, I hope you will make a handsome wedding-present the day you
marry Mademoiselle Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have already told you it is a fancy you have taken in your head.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat fortune has she?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I tell youГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA million?ГўВҖВқ

Andrea shrugged his shoulders.

ГўВҖВңLet it be a million,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңyou can never have so much as
I wish you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you,ГўВҖВқ said the young man.

ГўВҖВңOh, I wish it you with all my heart!ГўВҖВқ added Caderousse with his hoarse
laugh. ГўВҖВңStop, let me show you the way.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not worthwhile.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause there is a little secret, a precaution I thought it desirable
to take, one of Huret & FichetГўВҖВҷs locks, revised and improved by Gaspard
Caderousse; I will manufacture you a similar one when you are a
capitalist.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea; ГўВҖВңI will let you know a week beforehand.ГўВҖВқ

They parted. Caderousse remained on the landing until he had not only
seen Andrea go down the three stories, but also cross the court. Then
he returned hastily, shut his door carefully, and began to study, like
a clever architect, the plan Andrea had left him.

ГўВҖВңDear Benedetto,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI think he will not be sorry to inherit his
fortune, and he who hastens the day when he can touch his five hundred
thousand will not be his worst friend.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 82. The Burglary

The day following that on which the conversation we have related took
place, the Count of Monte Cristo set out for Auteuil, accompanied by
Ali and several attendants, and also taking with him some horses whose
qualities he was desirous of ascertaining. He was induced to undertake
this journey, of which the day before he had not even thought and which
had not occurred to Andrea either, by the arrival of Bertuccio from
Normandy with intelligence respecting the house and sloop. The house
was ready, and the sloop which had arrived a week before lay at anchor
in a small creek with her crew of six men, who had observed all the
requisite formalities and were ready again to put to sea.

The count praised BertuccioГўВҖВҷs zeal, and ordered him to prepare for a
speedy departure, as his stay in France would not be prolonged more
than a month.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI may require to go in one night from Paris to
TrГғВ©port; let eight fresh horses be in readiness on the road, which will
enable me to go fifty leagues in ten hours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour highness had already expressed that wish,ГўВҖВқ said Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңand
the horses are ready. I have bought them, and stationed them myself at
the most desirable posts, that is, in villages, where no one generally
stops.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs well,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI remain here a day or twoГўВҖВ”arrange
accordingly.ГўВҖВқ

As Bertuccio was leaving the room to give the requisite orders,
Baptistin opened the door: he held a letter on a silver waiter.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you doing here?ГўВҖВқ asked the count, seeing him covered with
dust; ГўВҖВңI did not send for you, I think?ГўВҖВқ

Baptistin, without answering, approached the count, and presented the
letter. ГўВҖВңImportant and urgent,ГўВҖВқ said he.

The count opened the letter, and read:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳM. de Monte Cristo is apprised that this night a man will enter his
house in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es with the intention of carrying off some
papers supposed to be in the secretaire in the dressing-room. The
countГўВҖВҷs well-known courage will render unnecessary the aid of the
police, whose interference might seriously affect him who sends this
advice. The count, by any opening from the bedroom, or by concealing
himself in the dressing-room, would be able to defend his property
himself. Many attendants or apparent precautions would prevent the
villain from the attempt, and M. de Monte Cristo would lose the
opportunity of discovering an enemy whom chance has revealed to him who
now sends this warning to the count,ГўВҖВ”a warning he might not be able to
send another time, if this first attempt should fail and another be
made.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ


The countГўВҖВҷs first idea was that this was an artificeГўВҖВ”a gross deception,
to draw his attention from a minor danger in order to expose him to a
greater. He was on the point of sending the letter to the commissary of
police, notwithstanding the advice of his anonymous friend, or perhaps
because of that advice, when suddenly the idea occurred to him that it
might be some personal enemy, whom he alone should recognize and over
whom, if such were the case, he alone would gain any advantage, as
Fiesco17 had done over the Moor who would have killed him. We know the
countГўВҖВҷs vigorous and daring mind, denying anything to be impossible,
with that energy which marks the great man.

From his past life, from his resolution to shrink from nothing, the
count had acquired an inconceivable relish for the contests in which he
had engaged, sometimes against nature, that is to say, against God, and
sometimes against the world, that is, against the devil.

ГўВҖВңThey do not want my papers,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthey want to kill me;
they are no robbers, but assassins. I will not allow the prefect of
police to interfere with my private affairs. I am rich enough,
forsooth, to distribute his authority on this occasion.ГўВҖВқ

The count recalled Baptistin, who had left the room after delivering
the letter.

ГўВҖВңReturn to Paris,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңassemble the servants who remain there. I
want all my household at Auteuil.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut will no one remain in the house, my lord?ГўВҖВқ asked Baptistin.

ГўВҖВңYes, the porter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy lord will remember that the lodge is at a distance from the house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe house might be stripped without his hearing the least noise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy thieves.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are a fool, M. Baptistin. Thieves might strip the houseГўВҖВ”it would
annoy me less than to be disobeyed.ГўВҖВқ Baptistin bowed.

40150m



ГўВҖВңYou understand me?ГўВҖВқ said the count. ГўВҖВңBring your comrades here, one and
all; but let everything remain as usual, only close the shutters of the
ground floor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd those of the first floor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know they are never closed. Go!ГўВҖВқ

The count signified his intention of dining alone, and that no one but
Ali should attend him. Having dined with his usual tranquillity and
moderation, the count, making a signal to Ali to follow him, went out
by the side-gate and on reaching the Bois de Boulogne turned,
apparently without design towards Paris and at twilight; found himself
opposite his house in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es. All was dark; one solitary,
feeble light was burning in the porterГўВҖВҷs lodge, about forty paces
distant from the house, as Baptistin had said.

Monte Cristo leaned against a tree, and with that scrutinizing glance
which was so rarely deceived, looked up and down the avenue, examined
the passers-by, and carefully looked down the neighboring streets, to
see that no one was concealed. Ten minutes passed thus, and he was
convinced that no one was watching him. He hastened to the side-door
with Ali, entered hurriedly, and by the servantsГўВҖВҷ staircase, of which
he had the key, gained his bedroom without opening or disarranging a
single curtain, without even the porter having the slightest suspicion
that the house, which he supposed empty, contained its chief occupant.

Arrived in his bedroom, the count motioned to Ali to stop; then he
passed into the dressing-room, which he examined. Everything appeared
as usualГўВҖВ”the precious secretaire in its place, and the key in the
secretaire. He double locked it, took the key, returned to the bedroom
door, removed the double staple of the bolt, and went in. Meanwhile Ali
had procured the arms the count requiredГўВҖВ”namely, a short carbine and a
pair of double-barrelled pistols, with which as sure an aim might be
taken as with a single-barrelled one. Thus armed, the count held the
lives of five men in his hands. It was about half-past nine.

The count and Ali ate in haste a crust of bread and drank a glass of
Spanish wine; then Monte Cristo slipped aside one of the movable
panels, which enabled him to see into the adjoining room. He had within
his reach his pistols and carbine, and Ali, standing near him, held one
of the small Arabian hatchets, whose form has not varied since the
Crusades. Through one of the windows of the bedroom, on a line with
that in the dressing-room, the count could see into the street.

Two hours passed thus. It was intensely dark; still Ali, thanks to his
wild nature, and the count, thanks doubtless to his long confinement,
could distinguish in the darkness the slightest movement of the trees.
The little light in the lodge had long been extinct. It might be
expected that the attack, if indeed an attack was projected, would be
made from the staircase of the ground floor, and not from a window; in
Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs opinion, the villains sought his life, not his money. It
would be his bedroom they would attack, and they must reach it by the
back staircase, or by the window in the dressing-room.

The clock of the Invalides struck a quarter to twelve; the west wind
bore on its moistened gusts the doleful vibration of the three strokes.

40152m



As the last stroke died away, the count thought he heard a slight noise
in the dressing-room; this first sound, or rather this first grinding,
was followed by a second, then a third; at the fourth, the count knew
what to expect. A firm and well-practised hand was engaged in cutting
the four sides of a pane of glass with a diamond. The count felt his
heart beat more rapidly.

Inured as men may be to danger, forewarned as they may be of peril,
they understand, by the fluttering of the heart and the shuddering of
the frame, the enormous difference between a dream and a reality,
between the project and the execution. However, Monte Cristo only made
a sign to apprise Ali, who, understanding that danger was approaching
from the other side, drew nearer to his master. Monte Cristo was eager
to ascertain the strength and number of his enemies.

The window whence the noise proceeded was opposite the opening by which
the count could see into the dressing-room. He fixed his eyes on that
windowГўВҖВ”he distinguished a shadow in the darkness; then one of the panes
became quite opaque, as if a sheet of paper were stuck on the outside,
then the square cracked without falling. Through the opening an arm was
passed to find the fastening, then a second; the window turned on its
hinges, and a man entered. He was alone.

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs a daring rascal,ГўВҖВқ whispered the count.

At that moment Ali touched him slightly on the shoulder. He turned; Ali
pointed to the window of the room in which they were, facing the
street.

ГўВҖВңI see!ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthere are two of them; one does the work while the
other stands guard.ГўВҖВқ He made a sign to Ali not to lose sight of the man
in the street, and turned to the one in the dressing-room.

The glass-cutter had entered, and was feeling his way, his arms
stretched out before him. At last he appeared to have made himself
familiar with his surroundings. There were two doors; he bolted them
both.

When he drew near to the bedroom door, Monte Cristo expected that he
was coming in, and raised one of his pistols; but he simply heard the
sound of the bolts sliding in their copper rings. It was only a
precaution. The nocturnal visitor, ignorant of the fact that the count
had removed the staples, might now think himself at home, and pursue
his purpose with full security. Alone and free to act as he wished, the
man then drew from his pocket something which the count could not
discern, placed it on a stand, then went straight to the secretaire,
felt the lock, and contrary to his expectation found that the key was
missing. But the glass-cutter was a prudent man who had provided for
all emergencies. The count soon heard the rattling of a bunch of
skeleton keys, such as the locksmith brings when called to force a
lock, and which thieves call nightingales, doubtless from the music of
their nightly song when they grind against the bolt.

ГўВҖВңAh, ha,ГўВҖВқ whispered Monte Cristo with a smile of disappointment, ГўВҖВңhe is
only a thief.ГўВҖВқ

But the man in the dark could not find the right key. He reached the
instrument he had placed on the stand, touched a spring, and
immediately a pale light, just bright enough to render objects
distinct, was reflected on his hands and countenance.

ГўВҖВңBy heavens,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Monte Cristo, starting back, ГўВҖВңit isГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Ali raised his hatchet.

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt stir,ГўВҖВқ whispered Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңand put down your hatchet; we
shall require no arms.ГўВҖВқ

40154m



Then he added some words in a low tone, for the exclamation which
surprise had drawn from the count, faint as it had been, had startled
the man who remained in the pose of the old knife-grinder.

It was an order the count had just given, for immediately Ali went
noiselessly, and returned, bearing a black dress and a three-cornered
hat. Meanwhile Monte Cristo had rapidly taken off his greatcoat,
waistcoat, and shirt, and one might distinguish by the glimmering
through the open panel that he wore a pliant tunic of steel mail, of
which the last in France, where daggers are no longer dreaded, was worn
by King Louis XVI., who feared the dagger at his breast, and whose head
was cleft with a hatchet. The tunic soon disappeared under a long
cassock, as did his hair under a priestГўВҖВҷs wig; the three-cornered hat
over this effectually transformed the count into an abbГғВ©.

The man, hearing nothing more, stood erect, and while Monte Cristo was
completing his disguise had advanced straight to the secretaire, whose
lock was beginning to crack under his nightingale.

ГўВҖВңTry again,ГўВҖВқ whispered the count, who depended on the secret spring,
which was unknown to the picklock, clever as he might beГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңtry again,
you have a few minutesГўВҖВҷ work there.ГўВҖВқ

And he advanced to the window. The man whom he had seen seated on a
fence had got down, and was still pacing the street; but, strange as it
appeared, he cared not for those who might pass from the avenue of the
Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es or by the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©; his attention was
engrossed with what was passing at the countГўВҖВҷs, and his only aim
appeared to be to discern every movement in the dressing-room.

Monte Cristo suddenly struck his finger on his forehead and a smile
passed over his lips; then drawing near to Ali, he whispered:

ГўВҖВңRemain here, concealed in the dark, and whatever noise you hear,
whatever passes, only come in or show yourself if I call you.ГўВҖВқ

Ali bowed in token of strict obedience. Monte Cristo then drew a
lighted taper from a closet, and when the thief was deeply engaged with
his lock, silently opened the door, taking care that the light should
shine directly on his face. The door opened so quietly that the thief
heard no sound; but, to his astonishment, the room was suddenly
illuminated. He turned.

ГўВҖВңAh, good-evening, my dear M. Caderousse,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңwhat are
you doing here, at such an hour?ГўВҖВқ

40156m



ГўВҖВңThe AbbГғВ© Busoni!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Caderousse; and, not knowing how this
strange apparition could have entered when he had bolted the doors, he
let fall his bunch of keys, and remained motionless and stupefied. The
count placed himself between Caderousse and the window, thus cutting
off from the thief his only chance of retreat.

ГўВҖВңThe AbbГғВ© Busoni!ГўВҖВқ repeated Caderousse, fixing his haggard gaze on the
count.

ГўВҖВңYes, undoubtedly, the AbbГғВ© Busoni himself,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңAnd
I am very glad you recognize me, dear M. Caderousse; it proves you have
a good memory, for it must be about ten years since we last met.ГўВҖВқ

This calmness of Busoni, combined with his irony and boldness,
staggered Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңThe abbГғВ©, the abbГғВ©!ГўВҖВқ murmured he, clenching his fists, and his teeth
chattering.

ГўВҖВңSo you would rob the Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ continued the false abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңReverend sir,ГўВҖВқ murmured Caderousse, seeking to regain the window,
which the count pitilessly blockedГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңreverend sir, I donГўВҖВҷt knowГўВҖВ”believe
meГўВҖВ”I take my oathГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA pane of glass out,ГўВҖВқ continued the count, ГўВҖВңa dark lantern, a bunch of
false keys, a secretaire half forcedГўВҖВ”it is tolerably evidentГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse was choking; he looked around for some corner to hide in,
some way of escape.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ continued the count, ГўВҖВңI see you are still the same,ГўВҖВ”an
assassin.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReverend sir, since you know everything, you know it was not IГўВҖВ”it was
La Carconte; that was proved at the trial, since I was only condemned
to the galleys.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs your time, then, expired, since I find you in a fair way to return
there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, reverend sir; I have been liberated by someone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat someone has done society a great kindness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңI had promisedГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you are breaking your promise!ГўВҖВқ interrupted Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңAlas, yes!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse very uneasily.

ГўВҖВңA bad relapse, that will lead you, if I mistake not, to the Place de
GrГғВЁve. So much the worse, so much the worseГўВҖВ”_diavolo!_ as they say in
my country.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReverend sir, I am impelledГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEvery criminal says the same thing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPovertyГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPshaw!ГўВҖВқ said Busoni disdainfully; ГўВҖВңpoverty may make a man beg, steal a
loaf of bread at a bakerГўВҖВҷs door, but not cause him to open a secretaire
in a house supposed to be inhabited. And when the jeweller Johannes had
just paid you 45,000 francs for the diamond I had given you, and you
killed him to get the diamond and the money both, was that also
poverty?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPardon, reverend sir,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңyou have saved my life once,
save me again!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is but poor encouragement.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you alone, reverend sir, or have you there soldiers ready to seize
me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am alone,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңand I will again have pity on you, and
will let you escape, at the risk of the fresh miseries my weakness may
lead to, if you tell me the truth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, reverend sir,ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse, clasping his hands, and drawing
nearer to Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI may indeed say you are my deliverer!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou mean to say you have been freed from confinement?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, that is true, reverend sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho was your liberator?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn Englishman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was his name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLord Wilmore.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know him; I shall know if you lie.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, reverend sir, I tell you the simple truth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas this Englishman protecting you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, not me, but a young Corsican, my companion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat was this young CorsicanГўВҖВҷs name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBenedetto.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs that his Christian name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe had no other; he was a foundling.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen this young man escaped with you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what way?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe were working at Saint-Mandrier, near Toulon. Do you know
Saint-Mandrier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the hour of rest, between noon and one oГўВҖВҷclockГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGalley-slaves having a nap after dinner! We may well pity the poor
fellows!ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңNay,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңone canГўВҖВҷt always workГўВҖВ”one is not a dog.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the better for the dogs,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWhile the rest slept, then, we went away a short distance; we severed
our fetters with a file the Englishman had given us, and swam away.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is become of this Benedetto?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou ought to know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, in truth; we parted at HyГғВЁres.ГўВҖВқ And, to give more weight to his
protestation, Caderousse advanced another step towards the abbГғВ©, who
remained motionless in his place, as calm as ever, and pursuing his
interrogation.

ГўВҖВңYou lie,ГўВҖВқ said the AbbГғВ© Busoni, with a tone of irresistible authority.

ГўВҖВңReverend sir!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou lie! This man is still your friend, and you, perhaps, make use of
him as your accomplice.ГўВҖВқ

40160m



ГўВҖВңOh, reverend sir!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSince you left Toulon what have you lived on? Answer me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn what I could get.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou lie,ГўВҖВқ repeated the abbГғВ© a third time, with a still more imperative
tone. Caderousse, terrified, looked at the count. ГўВҖВңYou have lived on
the money he has given you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңBenedetto has become the son of a great
lord.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow can he be the son of a great lord?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA natural son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is that great lordГўВҖВҷs name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo, the very same in whose house we are.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBenedetto the countГўВҖВҷs son?ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, astonished in his
turn.

ГўВҖВңWell, I should think so, since the count has found him a false
fatherГўВҖВ”since the count gives him four thousand francs a month, and
leaves him 500,000 francs in his will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes,ГўВҖВқ said the factitious abbГғВ©, who began to understand; ГўВҖВңand what
name does the young man bear meanwhile?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAndrea Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it, then, that young man whom my friend the Count of Monte Cristo
has received into his house, and who is going to marry Mademoiselle
Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you suffer that, you wretch!ГўВҖВ”you, who know his life and his
crime?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy should I stand in a comradeГўВҖВҷs way?ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңYou are right; it is not you who should apprise M. Danglars, it is I.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not do so, reverend sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause you would bring us to ruin.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you think that to save such villains as you I will become an
abettor of their plot, an accomplice in their crimes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReverend sir,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, drawing still nearer.

ГўВҖВңI will expose all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo M. Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy Heaven!ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse, drawing from his waistcoat an open
knife, and striking the count in the breast, ГўВҖВңyou shall disclose
nothing, reverend sir!ГўВҖВқ

To CaderousseГўВҖВҷs great astonishment, the knife, instead of piercing the
countГўВҖВҷs breast, flew back blunted. At the same moment the count seized
with his left hand the assassinГўВҖВҷs wrist, and wrung it with such
strength that the knife fell from his stiffened fingers, and Caderousse
uttered a cry of pain. But the count, disregarding his cry, continued
to wring the banditГўВҖВҷs wrist, until, his arm being dislocated, he fell
first on his knees, then flat on the floor.

The count then placed his foot on his head, saying, ГўВҖВңI know not what
restrains me from crushing thy skull, rascal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, mercyГўВҖВ”mercy!ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse.

The count withdrew his foot.

40162m



ГўВҖВңRise!ГўВҖВқ said he. Caderousse rose.

ГўВҖВңWhat a wrist you have, reverend sir!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, stroking his
arm, all bruised by the fleshy pincers which had held it; ГўВҖВңwhat a
wrist!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSilence! God gives me strength to overcome a wild beast like you; in
the name of that God I act,ГўВҖВ”remember that, wretch,ГўВҖВ”and to spare thee at
this moment is still serving him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, groaning with pain.

ГўВҖВңTake this pen and paper, and write what I dictate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt know how to write, reverend sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou lie! Take this pen, and write!ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse, awed by the superior power of the abbГғВ©, sat down and wrote:

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВ”The man whom you are receiving at your house, and to whom you
intend to marry your daughter, is a felon who escaped with me from
confinement at Toulon. He was No. 59, and I No. 58. He was called
Benedetto, but he is ignorant of his real name, having never known his
parents.ГўВҖВқ


ГўВҖВңSign it!ГўВҖВқ continued the count.

ГўВҖВңBut would you ruin me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I sought your ruin, fool, I should drag you to the first
guard-house; besides, when that note is delivered, in all probability
you will have no more to fear. Sign it, then!ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse signed it.

ГўВҖВңThe address, ГўВҖВҳTo monsieur the Baron Danglars, banker, Rue de la
ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Caderousse wrote the address. The abbГғВ© took the note.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthat sufficesГўВҖВ”begone!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich way?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe way you came.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou wish me to get out at that window?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou got in very well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you have some design against me, reverend sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIdiot! what design can I have?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, then, not let me out by the door?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat would be the advantage of waking the porter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, reverend sir, tell me, do you wish me dead?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI wish what God wills.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut swear that you will not strike me as I go down.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCowardly fool!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you intend doing with me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI ask you what can I do? I have tried to make you a happy man, and you
have turned out a murderer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңmake one more attemptГўВҖВ”try me once
more!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will,ГўВҖВқ said the count. ГўВҖВңListenГўВҖВ”you know if I may be relied on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңIf you arrive safely at homeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat have I to fear, except from you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you reach your home safely, leave Paris, leave France, and wherever
you may be, so long as you conduct yourself well, I will send you a
small annuity; for, if you return home safely, thenГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen?ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse, shuddering.

40164m



ГўВҖВңThen I shall believe God has forgiven you, and I will forgive you
too.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs true as I am a Christian,ГўВҖВқ stammered Caderousse, ГўВҖВңyou will make me
die of fright!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow begone,ГўВҖВқ said the count, pointing to the window.

Caderousse, scarcely yet relying on this promise, put his legs out of
the window and stood on the ladder.

ГўВҖВңNow go down,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, folding his arms. Understanding he had
nothing more to fear from him, Caderousse began to go down. Then the
count brought the taper to the window, that it might be seen in the
Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es that a man was getting out of the window while another
held a light.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you doing, reverend sir? Suppose a watchman should pass?ГўВҖВқ And
he blew out the light. He then descended, but it was only when he felt
his foot touch the ground that he was satisfied of his safety.

Monte Cristo returned to his bedroom, and, glancing rapidly from the
garden to the street, he saw first Caderousse, who after walking to the
end of the garden, fixed his ladder against the wall at a different
part from where he came in. The count then looking over into the
street, saw the man who appeared to be waiting run in the same
direction, and place himself against the angle of the wall where
Caderousse would come over. Caderousse climbed the ladder slowly, and
looked over the coping to see if the street was quiet. No one could be
seen or heard. The clock of the Invalides struck one. Then Caderousse
sat astride the coping, and drawing up his ladder passed it over the
wall; then he began to descend, or rather to slide down by the two
stanchions, which he did with an ease which proved how accustomed he
was to the exercise. But, once started, he could not stop. In vain did
he see a man start from the shadow when he was halfway downГўВҖВ”in vain did
he see an arm raised as he touched the ground.

Before he could defend himself that arm struck him so violently in the
back that he let go the ladder, crying, ГўВҖВңHelp!ГўВҖВқ A second blow struck
him almost immediately in the side, and he fell, calling, ГўВҖВңHelp,
murder!ГўВҖВқ Then, as he rolled on the ground, his adversary seized him by
the hair, and struck him a third blow in the chest.

This time Caderousse endeavored to call again, but he could only utter
a groan, and he shuddered as the blood flowed from his three wounds.
The assassin, finding that he no longer cried out, lifted his head up
by the hair; his eyes were closed, and the mouth was distorted. The
murderer, supposing him dead, let fall his head and disappeared.

Then Caderousse, feeling that he was leaving him, raised himself on his
elbow, and with a dying voice cried with great effort:

ГўВҖВңMurder! I am dying! Help, reverend sir,ГўВҖВ”help!ГўВҖВқ

This mournful appeal pierced the darkness. The door of the
back-staircase opened, then the side-gate of the garden, and Ali and
his master were on the spot with lights.



 Chapter 83. The Hand of God

Caderousse continued to call piteously, ГўВҖВңHelp, reverend sir, help!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңHelp,ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse; ГўВҖВңI am murdered!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are here;ГўВҖВ”take courage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, itГўВҖВҷs all over! You are come too lateГўВҖВ”you are come to see me die.
What blows, what blood!ГўВҖВқ

He fainted. Ali and his master conveyed the wounded man into a room.
Monte Cristo motioned to Ali to undress him, and he then examined his
dreadful wounds.

ГўВҖВңMy God!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңthy vengeance is sometimes delayed, but only
that it may fall the more effectually.ГўВҖВқ Ali looked at his master for
further instructions. ГўВҖВңBring here immediately the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, M.
de Villefort, who lives in the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©. As you pass the
lodge, wake the porter, and send him for a surgeon.ГўВҖВқ

Ali obeyed, leaving the abbГғВ© alone with Caderousse, who had not yet
revived.

When the wretched man again opened his eyes, the count looked at him
with a mournful expression of pity, and his lips moved as if in prayer.
ГўВҖВңA surgeon, reverend sirГўВҖВ”a surgeon!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңI have sent for one,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңI know he cannot save my life, but he may strengthen me to give my
evidence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAgainst whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAgainst my murderer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you recognize him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; it was Benedetto.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe young Corsican?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHimself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour comrade?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. After giving me the plan of this house, doubtless hoping I should
kill the count and he thus become his heir, or that the count would
kill me and I should be out of his way, he waylaid me, and has murdered
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have also sent for the procureur.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe will not come in time; I feel my life fast ebbing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait a moment,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. He left the room, and returned in
five minutes with a phial. The dying manГўВҖВҷs eyes were all the time
riveted on the door, through which he hoped succor would arrive.

ГўВҖВңHasten, reverend sir, hasten! I shall faint again!ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo
approached, and dropped on his purple lips three or four drops of the
contents of the phial. Caderousse drew a deep breath. ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said he,
ГўВҖВңthat is life to me; more, more!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo drops more would kill you,ГўВҖВқ replied the abbГғВ©.

ГўВҖВңOh, send for someone to whom I can denounce the wretch!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I write your deposition? You can sign it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; and his eyes glistened at the thought of
this posthumous revenge. Monte Cristo wrote:

ГўВҖВңI die, murdered by the Corsican Benedetto, my comrade in the galleys
at Toulon, No. 59.ГўВҖВқ


ГўВҖВңQuick, quick!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңor I shall be unable to sign it.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo gave the pen to Caderousse, who collected all his
strength, signed it, and fell back on his bed, saying:

ГўВҖВңYou will relate all the rest, reverend sir; you will say he calls
himself Andrea Cavalcanti. He lodges at the HГғВҙtel des Princes. Oh, I am
dying!ГўВҖВқ He again fainted. The abbГғВ© made him smell the contents of the
phial, and he again opened his eyes. His desire for revenge had not
forsaken him.

ГўВҖВңAh, you will tell all I have said, will you not, reverend sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and much more.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat more will you say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will say he had doubtless given you the plan of this house, in the
hope the count would kill you. I will say, likewise, he had apprised
the count, by a note, of your intention, and, the count being absent, I
read the note and sat up to await you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd he will be guillotined, will he not?ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse. ГўВҖВңPromise me
that, and I will die with that hope.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will say,ГўВҖВқ continued the count, ГўВҖВңthat he followed and watched you
the whole time, and when he saw you leave the house, ran to the angle
of the wall to conceal himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you see all that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRemember my words: ГўВҖВҳIf you return home safely, I shall believe God has
forgiven you, and I will forgive you also.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you did not warn me!ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse, raising himself on his
elbows. ГўВҖВңYou knew I should be killed on leaving this house, and did not
warn me!ГўВҖВқ

40168m



ГўВҖВңNo; for I saw GodГўВҖВҷs justice placed in the hands of Benedetto, and
should have thought it sacrilege to oppose the designs of Providence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGodГўВҖВҷs justice! Speak not of it, reverend sir. If God were just, you
know how many would be punished who now escape.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPatience,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, in a tone which made the dying man shudder;
ГўВҖВңhave patience!ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse looked at him with amazement.

ГўВҖВңBesides,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, ГўВҖВңGod is merciful to all, as he has been to
you; he is first a father, then a judge.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you then believe in God?ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse.

ГўВҖВңHad I been so unhappy as not to believe in him until now,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo, ГўВҖВңI must believe on seeing you.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse raised his clenched hands towards heaven.

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©, extending his hand over the wounded man, as if
to command him to believe; ГўВҖВңthis is what the God in whom, on your
death-bed, you refuse to believe, has done for youГўВҖВ”he gave you health,
strength, regular employment, even friendsГўВҖВ”a life, in fact, which a man
might enjoy with a calm conscience. Instead of improving these gifts,
rarely granted so abundantly, this has been your courseГўВҖВ”you have given
yourself up to sloth and drunkenness, and in a fit of intoxication have
ruined your best friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHelp!ГўВҖВқ cried Caderousse; ГўВҖВңI require a surgeon, not a priest; perhaps I
am not mortally woundedГўВҖВ”I may not die; perhaps they can yet save my
life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour wounds are so far mortal that, without the three drops I gave
you, you would now be dead. Listen, then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ murmured Caderousse, ГўВҖВңwhat a strange priest you are; you drive
the dying to despair, instead of consoling them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ continued the abbГғВ©. ГўВҖВңWhen you had betrayed your friend, God
began not to strike, but to warn you. Poverty overtook you. You had
already passed half your life in coveting that which you might have
honorably acquired; and already you contemplated crime under the excuse
of want, when God worked a miracle in your behalf, sending you, by my
hands, a fortuneГўВҖВ”brilliant, indeed, for you, who had never possessed
any. But this unexpected, unhoped-for, unheard-of fortune sufficed you
no longer when you once possessed it; you wished to double it, and
how?ГўВҖВ”by a murder! You succeeded, and then God snatched it from you, and
brought you to justice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was not I who wished to kill the Jew,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse; ГўВҖВңit was La
Carconte.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңand God,ГўВҖВ”I cannot say in justice, for his
justice would have slain you,ГўВҖВ”but God, in his mercy, spared your life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu!_ to transport me for life, how merciful!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou thought it a mercy then, miserable wretch! The coward who feared
death rejoiced at perpetual disgrace; for like all galley-slaves, you
said, ГўВҖВҳI may escape from prison, I cannot from the grave.ГўВҖВҷ And you said
truly; the way was opened for you unexpectedly. An Englishman visited
Toulon, who had vowed to rescue two men from infamy, and his choice
fell on you and your companion. You received a second fortune, money
and tranquillity were restored to you, and you, who had been condemned
to a felonГўВҖВҷs life, might live as other men. Then, wretched creature,
then you tempted God a third time. ГўВҖВҳI have not enough,ГўВҖВҷ you said, when
you had more than you before possessed, and you committed a third
crime, without reason, without excuse. God is wearied; he has punished
you.ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse was fast sinking. ГўВҖВңGive me drink,ГўВҖВқ said he: ГўВҖВңI thirstГўВҖВ”I
burn!ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo gave him a glass of water. ГўВҖВңAnd yet that villain,
Benedetto, will escape!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo one, I tell you, will escape; Benedetto will be punished.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, you, too, will be punished, for you did not do your duty as a
priestГўВҖВ”you should have prevented Benedetto from killing me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ said the count, with a smile which petrified the dying man, ГўВҖВңwhen
you had just broken your knife against the coat of mail which protected
my breast! Yet perhaps if I had found you humble and penitent, I might
have prevented Benedetto from killing you; but I found you proud and
blood-thirsty, and I left you in the hands of God.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not believe there is a God,ГўВҖВқ howled Caderousse; ГўВҖВңyou do not
believe it; you lieГўВҖВ”you lie!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSilence,ГўВҖВқ said the abbГғВ©; ГўВҖВңyou will force the last drop of blood from
your veins. What! you do not believe in God when he is striking you
dead? you will not believe in him, who requires but a prayer, a word, a
tear, and he will forgive? God, who might have directed the assassinГўВҖВҷs
dagger so as to end your career in a moment, has given you this quarter
of an hour for repentance. Reflect, then, wretched man, and repent.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, ГўВҖВңno; I will not repent. There is no God; there
is no ProvidenceГўВҖВ”all comes by chance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is a Providence; there is a God,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңof whom
you are a striking proof, as you lie in utter despair, denying him,
while I stand before you, rich, happy, safe and entreating that God in
whom you endeavor not to believe, while in your heart you still believe
in him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut who are you, then?ГўВҖВқ asked Caderousse, fixing his dying eyes on the
count.

ГўВҖВңLook well at me!ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, putting the light near his face.

ГўВҖВңWell, the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВ”the AbbГғВ© Busoni.ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo took off the wig which
disfigured him, and let fall his black hair, which added so much to the
beauty of his pallid features.

ГўВҖВңOh?ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, thunderstruck, ГўВҖВңbut for that black hair, I
should say you were the Englishman, Lord Wilmore.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am neither the AbbГғВ© Busoni nor Lord Wilmore,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo;
ГўВҖВңthink again,ГўВҖВ”do you not recollect me?ГўВҖВқ

There was a magic effect in the countГўВҖВҷs words, which once more revived
the exhausted powers of the miserable man.

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңI think I have seen you and known you
formerly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, Caderousse, you have seen me; you knew me once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho, then, are you? and why, if you knew me, do you let me die?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause nothing can save you; your wounds are mortal. Had it been
possible to save you, I should have considered it another proof of
GodГўВҖВҷs mercy, and I would again have endeavored to restore you, I swear
by my fatherГўВҖВҷs tomb.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy your fatherГўВҖВҷs tomb!ГўВҖВқ said Caderousse, supported by a supernatural
power, and half-raising himself to see more distinctly the man who had
just taken the oath which all men hold sacred; ГўВҖВңwho, then, are you?ГўВҖВқ

The count had watched the approach of death. He knew this was the last
struggle. He approached the dying man, and, leaning over him with a
calm and melancholy look, he whispered, ГўВҖВңI amГўВҖВ”I amГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

And his almost closed lips uttered a name so low that the count himself
appeared afraid to hear it. Caderousse, who had raised himself on his
knees, and stretched out his arm, tried to draw back, then clasping his
hands, and raising them with a desperate effort, ГўВҖВңOh, my God, my God!ГўВҖВқ
said he, ГўВҖВңpardon me for having denied thee; thou dost exist, thou art
indeed manГўВҖВҷs father in heaven, and his judge on earth. My God, my Lord,
I have long despised thee! Pardon me, my God; receive me, Oh, my Lord!ГўВҖВқ

Caderousse sighed deeply, and fell back with a groan. The blood no
longer flowed from his wounds. He was dead.

ГўВҖВң_One!_ГўВҖВқ said the count mysteriously, his eyes fixed on the corpse,
disfigured by so awful a death.

Ten minutes afterwards the surgeon and the procureur arrived, the one
accompanied by the porter, the other by Ali, and were received by the
AbbГғВ© Busoni, who was praying by the side of the corpse.



 Chapter 84. Beauchamp

The daring attempt to rob the count was the topic of conversation
throughout Paris for the next fortnight. The dying man had signed a
deposition declaring Benedetto to be the assassin. The police had
orders to make the strictest search for the murderer. CaderousseГўВҖВҷs
knife, dark lantern, bunch of keys, and clothing, excepting the
waistcoat, which could not be found, were deposited at the registry;
the corpse was conveyed to the morgue. The count told everyone that
this adventure had happened during his absence at Auteuil, and that he
only knew what was related by the AbbГғВ© Busoni, who that evening, by
mere chance, had requested to pass the night in his house, to examine
some valuable books in his library.

Bertuccio alone turned pale whenever BenedettoГўВҖВҷs name was mentioned in
his presence, but there was no reason why anyone should notice his
doing so.

Villefort, being called on to prove the crime, was preparing his brief
with the same ardor that he was accustomed to exercise when required to
speak in criminal cases.

But three weeks had already passed, and the most diligent search had
been unsuccessful; the attempted robbery and the murder of the robber
by his comrade were almost forgotten in anticipation of the approaching
marriage of Mademoiselle Danglars to the Count Andrea Cavalcanti. It
was expected that this wedding would shortly take place, as the young
man was received at the bankerГўВҖВҷs as the betrothed.

Letters had been despatched to M. Cavalcanti, as the countГўВҖВҷs father,
who highly approved of the union, regretted his inability to leave
Parma at that time, and promised a wedding gift of a hundred and fifty
thousand livres. It was agreed that the three millions should be
intrusted to Danglars to invest; some persons had warned the young man
of the circumstances of his future father-in-law, who had of late
sustained repeated losses; but with sublime disinterestedness and
confidence the young man refused to listen, or to express a single
doubt to the baron.

The baron adored Count Andrea Cavalcanti; not so Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie
Danglars. With an instinctive hatred of matrimony, she suffered
AndreaГўВҖВҷs attentions in order to get rid of Morcerf; but when Andrea
urged his suit, she betrayed an entire dislike to him. The baron might
possibly have perceived it, but, attributing it to a caprice, feigned
ignorance.

The delay demanded by Beauchamp had nearly expired. Morcerf appreciated
the advice of Monte Cristo to let things die away of their own accord.
No one had taken up the remark about the general, and no one had
recognized in the officer who betrayed the castle of Yanina the noble
count in the House of Peers.

Albert, however, felt no less insulted; the few lines which had
irritated him were certainly intended as an insult. Besides, the manner
in which Beauchamp had closed the conference left a bitter recollection
in his heart. He cherished the thought of the duel, hoping to conceal
its true cause even from his seconds. Beauchamp had not been seen since
the day he visited Albert, and those of whom the latter inquired always
told him he was out on a journey which would detain him some days.
Where he was no one knew.

One morning Albert was awakened by his valet de chambre, who announced
Beauchamp. Albert rubbed his eyes, ordered his servant to introduce him
into the small smoking-room on the ground floor, dressed himself
quickly, and went down.

He found Beauchamp pacing the room; on perceiving him Beauchamp
stopped.

ГўВҖВңYour arrival here, without waiting my visit at your house today, looks
well, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Albert. ГўВҖВңTell me, may I shake hands with you, saying,
ГўВҖВҳBeauchamp, acknowledge you have injured me, and retain my friendship,ГўВҖВҷ
or must I simply propose to you a choice of arms?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlbert,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, with a look of sorrow which stupefied the
young man, ГўВҖВңlet us first sit down and talk.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRather, sir, before we sit down, I must demand your answer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlbert,ГўВҖВқ said the journalist, ГўВҖВңthese are questions which it is
difficult to answer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will facilitate it by repeating the question, ГўВҖВҳWill you, or will you
not, retract?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMorcerf, it is not enough to answer ГўВҖВҳyesГўВҖВҷ or ГўВҖВҳnoГўВҖВҷ to questions which
concern the honor, the social interest, and the life of such a man as
Lieutenant-gГғВ©nГғВ©ral the Count of Morcerf, peer of France.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat must then be done?ГўВҖВқ

40174m



ГўВҖВңWhat I have done, Albert. I reasoned thusГўВҖВ”money, time, and fatigue are
nothing compared with the reputation and interests of a whole family;
probabilities will not suffice, only facts will justify a deadly combat
with a friend. If I strike with the sword, or discharge the contents of
a pistol at man with whom, for three years, I have been on terms of
intimacy, I must, at least, know why I do so; I must meet him with a
heart at ease, and that quiet conscience which a man needs when his own
arm must save his life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, impatiently, ГўВҖВңwhat does all this mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt means that I have just returned from Yanina.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom Yanina?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpossible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere is my passport; examine the visaГўВҖВ”Geneva, Milan, Venice, Trieste,
Delvino, Yanina. Will you believe the government of a republic, a
kingdom, and an empire?ГўВҖВқ Albert cast his eyes on the passport, then
raised them in astonishment to Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңYou have been to Yanina?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңAlbert, had you been a stranger, a foreigner, a simple lord, like that
Englishman who came to demand satisfaction three or four months since,
and whom I killed to get rid of, I should not have taken this trouble;
but I thought this mark of consideration due to you. I took a week to
go, another to return, four days of quarantine, and forty-eight hours
to stay there; that makes three weeks. I returned last night, and here
I am.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat circumlocution! How long you are before you tell me what I most
wish to know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause, in truth, AlbertГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou hesitate?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВ”I fear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou fear to acknowledge that your correspondent has deceived you? Oh,
no self-love, Beauchamp. Acknowledge it, Beauchamp; your courage cannot
be doubted.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot so,ГўВҖВқ murmured the journalist; ГўВҖВңon the contraryГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Albert turned frightfully pale; he endeavored to speak, but the words
died on his lips.

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, in the most affectionate tone, ГўВҖВңI should
gladly make an apology; but, alas!ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe paragraph was correct, my friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? That French officerГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFernand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe traitor who surrendered the castle of the man in whose service he
wasГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPardon me, my friend, that man was your father!ГўВҖВқ

Albert advanced furiously towards Beauchamp, but the latter restrained
him more by a mild look than by his extended hand.

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңhere is a proof of it.ГўВҖВқ

40176m



Albert opened the paper, it was an attestation of four notable
inhabitants of Yanina, proving that Colonel Fernand Mondego, in the
service of Ali Tepelini, had surrendered the castle for two million
crowns. The signatures were perfectly legal. Albert tottered and fell
overpowered in a chair. It could no longer be doubted; the family name
was fully given. After a momentГўВҖВҷs mournful silence, his heart
overflowed, and he gave way to a flood of tears. Beauchamp, who had
watched with sincere pity the young manГўВҖВҷs paroxysm of grief, approached
him.

ГўВҖВңNow, Albert,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңyou understand meГўВҖВ”do you not? I wished to see
all, and to judge of everything for myself, hoping the explanation
would be in your fatherГўВҖВҷs favor, and that I might do him justice. But,
on the contrary, the particulars which are given prove that Fernand
Mondego, raised by Ali Pasha to the rank of governor-general, is no
other than Count Fernand of Morcerf; then, recollecting the honor you
had done me, in admitting me to your friendship, I hastened to you.ГўВҖВқ

Albert, still extended on the chair, covered his face with both hands,
as if to prevent the light from reaching him.

ГўВҖВңI hastened to you,ГўВҖВқ continued Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңto tell you, Albert, that in
this changing age, the faults of a father cannot revert upon his
children. Few have passed through this revolutionary period, in the
midst of which we were born, without some stain of infamy or blood to
soil the uniform of the soldier, or the gown of the magistrate. Now I
have these proofs, Albert, and I am in your confidence, no human power
can force me to a duel which your own conscience would reproach you
with as criminal, but I come to offer you what you can no longer demand
of me. Do you wish these proofs, these attestations, which I alone
possess, to be destroyed? Do you wish this frightful secret to remain
with us? Confided to me, it shall never escape my lips; say, Albert, my
friend, do you wish it?ГўВҖВқ

Albert threw himself on BeauchampГўВҖВҷs neck.

ГўВҖВңAh, noble fellow!ГўВҖВқ cried he.

ГўВҖВңTake these,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, presenting the papers to Albert.

Albert seized them with a convulsive hand, tore them in pieces, and
trembling lest the least vestige should escape and one day appear to
confront him, he approached the wax-light, always kept burning for
cigars, and burned every fragment.

ГўВҖВңDear, excellent friend,ГўВҖВқ murmured Albert, still burning the papers.

ГўВҖВңLet all be forgotten as a sorrowful dream,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңlet it
vanish as the last sparks from the blackened paper, and disappear as
the smoke from those silent ashes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңand may there remain only the eternal
friendship which I promised to my deliverer, which shall be transmitted
to our childrenГўВҖВҷs children, and shall always remind me that I owe my
life and the honor of my name to you,ГўВҖВ”for had this been known, oh,
Beauchamp, I should have destroyed myself; or,ГўВҖВ”no, my poor mother! I
could not have killed her by the same blow,ГўВҖВ”I should have fled from my
country.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDear Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp. But this sudden and factitious joy soon
forsook the young man, and was succeeded by a still greater grief.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңwhat still oppresses you, my friend?ГўВҖВқ

40178m



ГўВҖВңI am broken-hearted,ГўВҖВқ said Albert. ГўВҖВңListen, Beauchamp! I cannot thus,
in a moment relinquish the respect, the confidence, and pride with
which a fatherГўВҖВҷs untarnished name inspires a son. Oh, Beauchamp,
Beauchamp, how shall I now approach mine? Shall I draw back my forehead
from his embrace, or withhold my hand from his? I am the most wretched
of men. Ah, my mother, my poor mother!ГўВҖВқ said Albert, gazing through his
tears at his motherГўВҖВҷs portrait; ГўВҖВңif you know this, how much must you
suffer!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, taking both his hands, ГўВҖВңtake courage, my
friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut how came that first note to be inserted in your journal? Some
unknown enemyГўВҖВ”an invisible foeГўВҖВ”has done this.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe more must you fortify yourself, Albert. Let no trace of emotion be
visible on your countenance, bear your grief as the cloud bears within
it ruin and deathГўВҖВ”a fatal secret, known only when the storm bursts. Go,
my friend, reserve your strength for the moment when the crash shall
come.ГўВҖВқ

40179m



ГўВҖВңYou think, then, all is not over yet?ГўВҖВқ said Albert, horror-stricken.

ГўВҖВңI think nothing, my friend; but all things are possible. By the wayГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ said Albert, seeing that Beauchamp hesitated.

ГўВҖВңAre you going to marry Mademoiselle Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy do you ask me now?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause the rupture or fulfilment of this engagement is connected with
the person of whom we were speaking.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow?ГўВҖВқ said Albert, whose brow reddened; ГўВҖВңyou think M. DanglarsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI ask you only how your engagement stands? Pray put no construction on
my words I do not mean they should convey, and give them no undue
weight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңthe engagement is broken off.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp. Then, seeing the young man was about to relapse
into melancholy, ГўВҖВңLet us go out, Albert,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңa ride in the wood
in the phaeton, or on horseback, will refresh you; we will then return
to breakfast, and you shall attend to your affairs, and I to mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWillingly,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңbut let us walk. I think a little exertion
would do me good.ГўВҖВқ

The two friends walked out on the fortress. When they arrived at the
Madeleine:

ГўВҖВңSince we are out,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңlet us call on M. de Monte Cristo;
he is admirably adapted to revive oneГўВҖВҷs spirits, because he never
interrogates, and in my opinion those who ask no questions are the best
comforters.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGladly,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңlet us callГўВҖВ”I love him.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 85. The Journey

Monte Cristo uttered a joyful exclamation on seeing the young men
together. ГўВҖВңAh, ha!ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI hope all is over, explained and
settled.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңthe absurd reports have died away, and should
they be renewed, I would be the first to oppose them; so let us speak
no more of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlbert will tell you,ГўВҖВқ replied the count ГўВҖВңthat I gave him the same
advice. Look,ГўВҖВқ added he. ГўВҖВңI am finishing the most execrable morningГўВҖВҷs
work.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңarranging your papers, apparently.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy papers, thank God, no,ГўВҖВ”my papers are all in capital order, because
I have none; but M. CavalcantiГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. CavalcantiГўВҖВҷs?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңYes; do you not know that this is a young man whom the count is
introducing?ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңLet us not misunderstand each other,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI
introduce no one, and certainly not M. Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who,ГўВҖВқ said Albert with a forced smile, ГўВҖВңis to marry Mademoiselle
Danglars instead of me, which grieves me cruelly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? Cavalcanti is going to marry Mademoiselle Danglars?ГўВҖВқ asked
Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңCertainly! do you come from the end of the world?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo;
ГўВҖВңyou, a journalist, the husband of renown? It is the talk of all
Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you, count, have made this match?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңI? Silence, purveyor of gossip, do not spread that report. I make a
match? No, you do not know me; I have done all in my power to oppose
it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, I understand,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңon our friend AlbertГўВҖВҷs account.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn my account?ГўВҖВқ said the young man; ГўВҖВңoh, no, indeed, the count will do
me the justice to assert that I have, on the contrary, always entreated
him to break off my engagement, and happily it is ended. The count
pretends I have not him to thank;ГўВҖВ”so be itГўВҖВ”I will erect an altar _Deo
ignoto_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI have had little to do with it, for I am
at variance both with the father-in-law and the young man; there is
only Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie, who appears but little charmed with the
thoughts of matrimony, and who, seeing how little I was disposed to
persuade her to renounce her dear liberty, retains any affection for
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you say this wedding is at hand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, in spite of all I could say. I do not know the young man; he
is said to be of good family and rich, but I never trust to vague
assertions. I have warned M. Danglars of it till I am tired, but he is
fascinated with his Luccanese. I have even informed him of a
circumstance I consider very serious; the young man was either charmed
by his nurse, stolen by gypsies, or lost by his tutor, I scarcely know
which. But I do know his father lost sight of him for more than ten
years; what he did during these ten years, God only knows. Well, all
that was useless. They have commissioned me to write to the major to
demand papers, and here they are. I send them, but like PilateГўВҖВ”washing
my hands.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what does Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly say to you for robbing her of her
pupil?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, well, I donГўВҖВҷt know; but I understand that she is going to Italy.
Madame Danglars asked me for letters of recommendation for the
_impresari_; I gave her a few lines for the director of the Valle
Theatre, who is under some obligation to me. But what is the matter,
Albert? you look dull; are you, after all, unconsciously in love with
Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am not aware of it,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, smiling sorrowfully. Beauchamp
turned to look at some paintings.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ continued Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou are not in your usual spirits?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have a dreadful headache,ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңWell, my dear viscount,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI have an infallible
remedy to propose to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ asked the young man.

ГўВҖВңA change.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңYes; and as I am just now excessively annoyed, I shall go from home.
Shall we go together?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou annoyed, count?ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңand by what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you think very lightly of it; I should like to see you with a
brief preparing in your house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat brief?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe one M. de Villefort is preparing against my amiable assassinГўВҖВ”some
brigand escaped from the gallows apparently.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңI saw it in the paper. Who is this
Caderousse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSome ProvenГғВ§al, it appears. M. de Villefort heard of him at
Marseilles, and M. Danglars recollects having seen him. Consequently,
the procureur is very active in the affair, and the prefect of police
very much interested; and, thanks to that interest, for which I am very
grateful, they send me all the robbers of Paris and the neighborhood,
under pretence of their being CaderousseГўВҖВҷs murderers, so that in three
months, if this continues, every robber and assassin in France will
have the plan of my house at his fingersГўВҖВҷ ends. I am resolved to desert
them and go to some remote corner of the earth, and shall be happy if
you will accompany me, viscount.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWillingly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen it is settled?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but where?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have told you, where the air is pure, where every sound soothes,
where one is sure to be humbled, however proud may be his nature. I
love that humiliation, I, who am master of the universe, as was
Augustus.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut where are you really going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo sea, viscount; you know I am a sailor. I was rocked when an infant
in the arms of old Ocean, and on the bosom of the beautiful Amphitrite;
I have sported with the green mantle of the one and the azure robe of
the other; I love the sea as a mistress, and pine if I do not often see
her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us go, count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo sea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou accept my proposal?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, viscount, there will be in my courtyard this evening a good
travelling britzka, with four post-horses, in which one may rest as in
a bed. M. Beauchamp, it holds four very well, will you accompany us?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, I have just returned from sea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat? you have been to sea?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I have just made a little excursion to the Borromean Islands18.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat of that? come with us,ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңNo, dear Morcerf; you know I only refuse when the thing is impossible.
Besides, it is important,ГўВҖВқ added he in a low tone, ГўВҖВңthat I should
remain in Paris just now to watch the paper.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you are a good and an excellent friend,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңyes, you
are right; watch, watch, Beauchamp, and try to discover the enemy who
made this disclosure.ГўВҖВқ

Albert and Beauchamp parted, the last pressure of their hands
expressing what their tongues could not before a stranger.

ГўВҖВңBeauchamp is a worthy fellow,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, when the journalist
was gone; ГўВҖВңis he not, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and a sincere friend; I love him devotedly. But now we are
alone,ГўВҖВ”although it is immaterial to me,ГўВҖВ”where are we going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңInto Normandy, if you like.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDelightful; shall we be quite retired? have no society, no neighbors?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOur companions will be riding-horses, dogs to hunt with, and a
fishing-boat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly what I wish for; I will apprise my mother of my intention, and
return to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut shall you be allowed to go into Normandy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI may go where I please.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I am aware you may go alone, since I once met you in ItalyГўВҖВ”but to
accompany the mysterious Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou forget, count, that I have often told you of the deep interest my
mother takes in you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWoman is fickle.ГўВҖВҷ said Francis I.; ГўВҖВҳwoman is like a wave of the sea,ГўВҖВҷ
said Shakespeare; both the great king and the great poet ought to have
known womanГўВҖВҷs nature well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWomanГўВҖВҷs, yes; my mother is not woman, but _a_ woman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs I am only a humble foreigner, you must pardon me if I do not
understand all the subtle refinements of your language.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat I mean to say is, that my mother is not quick to give her
confidence, but when she does she never changes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes, indeed,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with a sigh; ГўВҖВңand do you think she
is in the least interested in me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI repeat it, you must really be a very strange and superior man, for
my mother is so absorbed by the interest you have excited, that when I
am with her she speaks of no one else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd does she try to make you dislike me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, she often says, ГўВҖВҳMorcerf, I believe the count has a
noble nature; try to gain his esteem.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, sighing.

ГўВҖВңYou see, then,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңthat instead of opposing, she will
encourage me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAdieu, then, until five oГўВҖВҷclock; be punctual, and we shall arrive at
twelve or one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt TrГғВ©port?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; or in the neighborhood.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut can we travel forty-eight leagues in eight hours?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEasily,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңYou are certainly a prodigy; you will soon not only surpass the
railway, which would not be very difficult in France, but even the
telegraph.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, viscount, since we cannot perform the journey in less than seven
or eight hours, do not keep me waiting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not fear, I have little to prepare.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo smiled as he nodded to Albert, then remained a moment
absorbed in deep meditation. But passing his hand across his forehead
as if to dispel his reverie, he rang the bell twice and Bertuccio
entered.

ГўВҖВңBertuccio,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI intend going this evening to Normandy, instead
of tomorrow or the next day. You will have sufficient time before five
oГўВҖВҷclock; despatch a messenger to apprise the grooms at the first
station. M. de Morcerf will accompany me.ГўВҖВқ

Bertuccio obeyed and despatched a courier to Pontoise to say the
travelling-carriage would arrive at six oГўВҖВҷclock. From Pontoise another
express was sent to the next stage, and in six hours all the horses
stationed on the road were ready.

Before his departure, the count went to HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs apartments, told her
his intention, and resigned everything to her care.

Albert was punctual. The journey soon became interesting from its
rapidity, of which Morcerf had formed no previous idea.

ГўВҖВңTruly,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңwith your post-horses going at the rate of
two leagues an hour, and that absurd law that one traveller shall not
pass another without permission, so that an invalid or ill-tempered
traveller may detain those who are well and active, it is impossible to
move; I escape this annoyance by travelling with my own postilion and
horses; do I not, Ali?ГўВҖВқ

The count put his head out of the window and whistled, and the horses
appeared to fly. The carriage rolled with a thundering noise over the
pavement, and everyone turned to notice the dazzling meteor. Ali,
smiling, repeated the sound, grasped the reins with a firm hand, and
spurred his horses, whose beautiful manes floated in the breeze. This
child of the desert was in his element, and with his black face and
sparkling eyes appeared, in the cloud of dust he raised, like the
genius of the simoom and the god of the hurricane.

ГўВҖВңI never knew till now the delight of speed,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, and the
last cloud disappeared from his brow; ГўВҖВңbut where the devil do you get
such horses? Are they made to order?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңsix years since I bought a horse in
Hungary remarkable for its swiftness. The thirty-two that we shall use
tonight are its progeny; they are all entirely black, with the
exception of a star upon the forehead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is perfectly admirable; but what do you do, count, with all these
horses?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou see, I travel with them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you are not always travelling.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen I no longer require them, Bertuccio will sell them, and he
expects to realize thirty or forty thousand francs by the sale.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut no monarch in Europe will be wealthy enough to purchase them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen he will sell them to some Eastern vizier, who will empty his
coffers to purchase them, and refill them by applying the bastinado to
his subjects.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount, may I suggest one idea to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is that, next to you, Bertuccio must be the richest gentleman in
Europe.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken, viscount; I believe he has not a franc in his
possession.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen he must be a wonder. My dear count, if you tell me many more
marvellous things, I warn you I shall not believe them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI countenance nothing that is marvellous, M. Albert. Tell me, why does
a steward rob his master?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause, I suppose, it is his nature to do so, for the love of
robbing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken; it is because he has a wife and family, and
ambitious desires for himself and them. Also because he is not sure of
always retaining his situation, and wishes to provide for the future.
Now, M. Bertuccio is alone in the world; he uses my property without
accounting for the use he makes of it; he is sure never to leave my
service.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I should never get a better.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProbabilities are deceptive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I deal in certainties; he is the best servant over whom one has
the power of life and death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you possess that right over Bertuccio?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

There are words which close a conversation with an iron door; such was
the countГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВңyes.ГўВҖВқ

The whole journey was performed with equal rapidity; the thirty-two
horses, dispersed over seven stages, brought them to their destination
in eight hours. At midnight they arrived at the gate of a beautiful
park. The porter was in attendance; he had been apprised by the groom
of the last stage of the countГўВҖВҷs approach. At half past two in the
morning Morcerf was conducted to his apartments, where a bath and
supper were prepared. The servant who had travelled at the back of the
carriage waited on him; Baptistin, who rode in front, attended the
count.

Albert bathed, took his supper, and went to bed. All night he was
lulled by the melancholy noise of the surf. On rising, he went to his
window, which opened on a terrace, having the sea in front, and at the
back a pretty park bounded by a small forest.

In a creek lay a little sloop, with a narrow keel and high masts,
bearing on its flag the Monte Cristo arms which were a mountain _or_,
on a sea _azure_, with a cross _gules_ in chief which might be an
allusion to his name that recalled Calvary, the mount rendered by our
LordГўВҖВҷs passion more precious than gold, and to the degrading cross
which his blood had rendered holy; or it might be some personal
remembrance of suffering and regeneration buried in the night of this
mysterious personageГўВҖВҷs past life.

Around the schooner lay a number of small fishing-boats belonging to
the fishermen of the neighboring village, like humble subjects awaiting
orders from their queen. There, as in every spot where Monte Cristo
stopped, if but for two days, luxury abounded and life went on with the
utmost ease.

Albert found in his anteroom two guns, with all the accoutrements for
hunting; a lofty room on the ground floor containing all the ingenious
instruments the EnglishГўВҖВ”eminent in piscatory pursuits, since they are
patient and sluggishГўВҖВ”have invented for fishing. The day passed in
pursuing those exercises in which Monte Cristo excelled. They killed a
dozen pheasants in the park, as many trout in the stream, dined in a
summer-house overlooking the ocean, and took tea in the library.

Towards the evening of the third day. Albert, completely exhausted with
the exercise which invigorated Monte Cristo, was sleeping in an
armchair near the window, while the count was designing with his
architect the plan of a conservatory in his house, when the sound of a
horse at full speed on the high road made Albert look up. He was
disagreeably surprised to see his own valet de chambre, whom he had not
brought, that he might not inconvenience Monte Cristo.

40188m



ГўВҖВңFlorentin here!ГўВҖВқ cried he, starting up; ГўВҖВңis my mother ill?ГўВҖВқ And he
hastened to the door. Monte Cristo watched and saw him approach the
valet, who drew a small sealed parcel from his pocket, containing a
newspaper and a letter.

ГўВҖВңFrom whom is this?ГўВҖВқ said he eagerly.

ГўВҖВңFrom M. Beauchamp,ГўВҖВқ replied Florentin.

ГўВҖВңDid he send you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir; he sent for me to his house, gave me money for my journey,
procured a horse, and made me promise not to stop till I had reached
you, I have come in fifteen hours.ГўВҖВқ

Albert opened the letter with fear, uttered a shriek on reading the
first line, and seized the paper. His sight was dimmed, his legs sank
under him, and he would have fallen had not Florentin supported him.

ГўВҖВңPoor young man,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo in a low voice; ГўВҖВңit is then true
that the sin of the father shall fall on the children to the third and
fourth generation.ГўВҖВқ

Meanwhile Albert had revived, and, continuing to read, he threw back
his head, saying:

ГўВҖВңFlorentin, is your horse fit to return immediately?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is a poor, lame post-horse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn what state was the house when you left?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll was quiet, but on returning from M. BeauchampГўВҖВҷs, I found madame in
tears; she had sent for me to know when you would return. I told her my
orders from M. Beauchamp; she first extended her arms to prevent me,
but after a momentГўВҖВҷs reflection, ГўВҖВҳYes, go, Florentin,ГўВҖВҷ said she, ГўВҖВҳand
may he come quickly.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, my mother,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңI will return, and woe to the infamous
wretch! But first of all I must get there.ГўВҖВқ

He went back to the room where he had left Monte Cristo. Five minutes
had sufficed to make a complete transformation in his appearance. His
voice had become rough and hoarse; his face was furrowed with wrinkles;
his eyes burned under the blue-veined lids, and he tottered like a
drunken man.

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI thank you for your hospitality, which I would
gladly have enjoyed longer; but I must return to Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat has happened?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA great misfortune, more important to me than life. DonГўВҖВҷt question me,
I beg of you, but lend me a horse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy stables are at your command, viscount; but you will kill yourself
by riding on horseback. Take a post-chaise or a carriage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, it would delay me, and I need the fatigue you warn me of; it will
do me good.ГўВҖВқ

Albert reeled as if he had been shot, and fell on a chair near the
door. Monte Cristo did not see this second manifestation of physical
exhaustion; he was at the window, calling:

ГўВҖВңAli, a horse for M. de MorcerfГўВҖВ”quick! he is in a hurry!ГўВҖВқ

40190m



These words restored Albert; he darted from the room, followed by the
count.

ГўВҖВңThank you!ГўВҖВқ cried he, throwing himself on his horse.

ГўВҖВңReturn as soon as you can, Florentin. Must I use any password to
procure a horse?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnly dismount; another will be immediately saddled.ГўВҖВқ

Albert hesitated a moment. ГўВҖВңYou may think my departure strange and
foolish,ГўВҖВқ said the young man; ГўВҖВңyou do not know how a paragraph in a
newspaper may exasperate one. Read that,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwhen I am gone,
that you may not be witness of my anger.ГўВҖВқ

While the count picked up the paper he put spurs to his horse, which
leaped in astonishment at such an unusual stimulus, and shot away with
the rapidity of an arrow. The count watched him with a feeling of
compassion, and when he had completely disappeared, read as follows:

ГўВҖВңThe French officer in the service of Ali Pasha of Yanina alluded to
three weeks since in _lГўВҖВҷImpartial_, who not only surrendered the castle
of Yanina, but sold his benefactor to the Turks, styled himself truly
at that time Fernand, as our esteemed contemporary states; but he has
since added to his Christian name a title of nobility and a family
name. He now calls himself the Count of Morcerf, and ranks among the
peers.ГўВҖВқ

Thus the terrible secret, which Beauchamp had so generously destroyed,
appeared again like an armed phantom; and another paper, deriving its
information from some malicious source, had published two days after
AlbertГўВҖВҷs departure for Normandy the few lines which had rendered the
unfortunate young man almost crazy.



 Chapter 86. The Trial

At eight oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning Albert had arrived at BeauchampГўВҖВҷs door.
The valet de chambre had received orders to usher him in at once.
Beauchamp was in his bath.

ГўВҖВңHere I am,ГўВҖВқ Albert said.

ГўВҖВңWell, my poor friend,ГўВҖВқ replied Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңI expected you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI need not say I think you are too faithful and too kind to have
spoken of that painful circumstance. Your having sent for me is another
proof of your affection. So, without losing time, tell me, have you the
slightest idea whence this terrible blow proceeds?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI think I have some clew.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut first tell me all the particulars of this shameful plot.ГўВҖВқ

Beauchamp proceeded to relate to the young man, who was overwhelmed
with shame and grief, the following facts. Two days previously, the
article had appeared in another paper besides _ lГўВҖВҷImpartial_, and, what
was more serious, one that was well known as a government paper.
Beauchamp was breakfasting when he read the paragraph. He sent
immediately for a cabriolet, and hastened to the publisherГўВҖВҷs office.
Although professing diametrically opposite principles from those of the
editor of the other paper, BeauchampГўВҖВ”as it sometimes, we may say often,
happensГўВҖВ”was his intimate friend. The editor was reading, with apparent
delight, a leading article in the same paper on beet-sugar, probably a
composition of his own.

ГўВҖВңAh, _pardieu!_ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңwith the paper in your hand, my
friend, I need not tell you the cause of my visit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you interested in the sugar question?ГўВҖВқ asked the editor of the
ministerial paper.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңI have not considered the question; a totally
different subject interests me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe article relative to Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed? Is it not a curious affair?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo curious, that I think you are running a great risk of a prosecution
for defamation of character.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all; we have received with the information all the requisite
proofs, and we are quite sure M. de Morcerf will not raise his voice
against us; besides, it is rendering a service to oneГўВҖВҷs country to
denounce these wretched criminals who are unworthy of the honor
bestowed on them.ГўВҖВқ

Beauchamp was thunderstruck.

ГўВҖВңWho, then, has so correctly informed you?ГўВҖВқ asked he; ГўВҖВңfor my paper,
which gave the first information on the subject, has been obliged to
stop for want of proof; and yet we are more interested than you in
exposing M. de Morcerf, as he is a peer of France, and we are of the
opposition.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, that is very simple; we have not sought to scandalize. This news
was brought to us. A man arrived yesterday from Yanina, bringing a
formidable array of documents; and when we hesitated to publish the
accusatory article, he told us it should be inserted in some other
paper.ГўВҖВқ

Beauchamp understood that nothing remained but to submit, and left the
office to despatch a courier to Morcerf. But he had been unable to send
to Albert the following particulars, as the events had transpired after
the messengerГўВҖВҷs departure; namely, that the same day a great agitation
was manifest in the House of Peers among the usually calm members of
that dignified assembly. Everyone had arrived almost before the usual
hour, and was conversing on the melancholy event which was to attract
the attention of the public towards one of their most illustrious
colleagues. Some were perusing the article, others making comments and
recalling circumstances which substantiated the charges still more.

The Count of Morcerf was no favorite with his colleagues. Like all
upstarts, he had had recourse to a great deal of haughtiness to
maintain his position. The true nobility laughed at him, the talented
repelled him, and the honorable instinctively despised him. He was, in
fact, in the unhappy position of the victim marked for sacrifice; the
finger of God once pointed at him, everyone was prepared to raise the
hue and cry.

The Count of Morcerf alone was ignorant of the news. He did not take in
the paper containing the defamatory article, and had passed the morning
in writing letters and in trying a horse. He arrived at his usual hour,
with a proud look and insolent demeanor; he alighted, passed through
the corridors, and entered the house without observing the hesitation
of the door-keepers or the coolness of his colleagues.

40194m



Business had already been going on for half an hour when he entered.
Everyone held the accusing paper, but, as usual, no one liked to take
upon himself the responsibility of the attack. At length an honorable
peer, MorcerfГўВҖВҷs acknowledged enemy, ascended the tribune with that
solemnity which announced that the expected moment had arrived. There
was an impressive silence; Morcerf alone knew not why such profound
attention was given to an orator who was not always listened to with so
much complacency.

The count did not notice the introduction, in which the speaker
announced that his communication would be of that vital importance that
it demanded the undivided attention of the House; but at the mention of
Yanina and Colonel Fernand, he turned so frightfully pale that every
member shuddered and fixed his eyes upon him. Moral wounds have this
peculiarity,ГўВҖВ”they may be hidden, but they never close; always painful,
always ready to bleed when touched, they remain fresh and open in the
heart.

The article having been read during the painful hush that followed, a
universal shudder pervaded the assembly, and immediately the closest
attention was given to the orator as he resumed his remarks. He stated
his scruples and the difficulties of the case; it was the honor of M.
de Morcerf, and that of the whole House, he proposed to defend, by
provoking a debate on personal questions, which are always such painful
themes of discussion. He concluded by calling for an investigation,
which might dispose of the calumnious report before it had time to
spread, and restore M. de Morcerf to the position he had long held in
public opinion.

Morcerf was so completely overwhelmed by this great and unexpected
calamity that he could scarcely stammer a few words as he looked around
on the assembly. This timidity, which might proceed from the
astonishment of innocence as well as the shame of guilt, conciliated
some in his favor; for men who are truly generous are always ready to
compassionate when the misfortune of their enemy surpasses the limits
of their hatred.

The president put it to the vote, and it was decided that the
investigation should take place. The count was asked what time he
required to prepare his defence. MorcerfГўВҖВҷs courage had revived when he
found himself alive after this horrible blow.

ГўВҖВңMy lords,ГўВҖВқ answered he, ГўВҖВңit is not by time I could repel the attack
made on me by enemies unknown to me, and, doubtless, hidden in
obscurity; it is immediately, and by a thunderbolt, that I must repel
the flash of lightning which, for a moment, startled me. Oh, that I
could, instead of taking up this defence, shed my last drop of blood to
prove to my noble colleagues that I am their equal in worth.ГўВҖВқ

These words made a favorable impression on behalf of the accused.

ГўВҖВңI demand, then, that the examination shall take place as soon as
possible, and I will furnish the house with all necessary information.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat day do you fix?ГўВҖВқ asked the president.

ГўВҖВңToday I am at your service,ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

The president rang the bell. ГўВҖВңDoes the House approve that the
examination should take place today?ГўВҖВқ

40196m



ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ was the unanimous answer.

A committee of twelve members was chosen to examine the proofs brought
forward by Morcerf. The investigation would begin at eight oГўВҖВҷclock that
evening in the committee-room, and if postponement were necessary, the
proceedings would be resumed each evening at the same hour. Morcerf
asked leave to retire; he had to collect the documents he had long been
preparing against this storm, which his sagacity had foreseen.

Beauchamp related to the young man all the facts we have just narrated;
his story, however, had over ours all the advantage of the animation of
living things over the coldness of dead things.

Albert listened, trembling now with hope, then with anger, and then
again with shame, for from BeauchampГўВҖВҷs confidence he knew his father
was guilty, and he asked himself how, since he was guilty, he could
prove his innocence. Beauchamp hesitated to continue his narrative.

ГўВҖВңWhat next?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert.

ГўВҖВңWhat next? My friend, you impose a painful task on me. Must you know
all?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbsolutely; and rather from your lips than anotherГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMuster up all your courage, then, for never have you required it
more.ГўВҖВқ

Albert passed his hand over his forehead, as if to try his strength, as
a man who is preparing to defend his life proves his shield and bends
his sword. He thought himself strong enough, for he mistook fever for
energy. ГўВҖВңGo on,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңThe evening arrived; all Paris was in expectation. Many said your
father had only to show himself to crush the charge against him; many
others said he would not appear; while some asserted that they had seen
him start for Brussels; and others went to the police-office to inquire
if he had taken out a passport. I used all my influence with one of the
committee, a young peer of my acquaintance, to get admission to one of
the galleries. He called for me at seven oГўВҖВҷclock, and, before anyone
had arrived, asked one of the door-keepers to place me in a box. I was
concealed by a column, and might witness the whole of the terrible
scene which was about to take place. At eight oГўВҖВҷclock all were in their
places, and M. de Morcerf entered at the last stroke. He held some
papers in his hand; his countenance was calm, and his step firm, and he
was dressed with great care in his military uniform, which was buttoned
completely up to the chin. His presence produced a good effect. The
committee was made up of Liberals, several of whom came forward to
shake hands with him.ГўВҖВқ

Albert felt his heart bursting at these particulars, but gratitude
mingled with his sorrow: he would gladly have embraced those who had
given his father this proof of esteem at a moment when his honor was so
powerfully attacked.

ГўВҖВңAt this moment one of the door-keepers brought in a letter for the
president. ГўВҖВҳYou are at liberty to speak, M. de Morcerf,ГўВҖВҷ said the
president, as he unsealed the letter; and the count began his defence,
I assure you, Albert, in a most eloquent and skilful manner. He
produced documents proving that the Vizier of Yanina had up to the last
moment honored him with his entire confidence, since he had interested
him with a negotiation of life and death with the emperor. He produced
the ring, his mark of authority, with which Ali Pasha generally sealed
his letters, and which the latter had given him, that he might, on his
return at any hour of the day or night, gain access to the presence,
even in the harem. Unfortunately, the negotiation failed, and when he
returned to defend his benefactor, he was dead. ГўВҖВҳBut,ГўВҖВҷ said the count,
ГўВҖВҳso great was Ali PashaГўВҖВҷs confidence, that on his death-bed he resigned
his favorite mistress and her daughter to my care.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Albert started on hearing these words; the history of HaydГғВ©e recurred
to him, and he remembered what she had said of that message and the
ring, and the manner in which she had been sold and made a slave.

ГўВҖВңAnd what effect did this discourse produce?ГўВҖВқ anxiously inquired
Albert.

ГўВҖВңI acknowledge it affected me, and, indeed, all the committee also,ГўВҖВқ
said Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңMeanwhile, the president carelessly opened the letter which had been
brought to him; but the first lines aroused his attention; he read them
again and again, and fixing his eyes on M. de Morcerf, ГўВҖВҳCount,ГўВҖВҷ said
he, ГўВҖВҳyou have said that the Vizier of Yanina confided his wife and
daughter to your care?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳYes, sir,ГўВҖВҷ replied Morcerf; ГўВҖВҳbut in that, like
all the rest, misfortune pursued me. On my return, Vasiliki and her
daughter HaydГғВ©e had disappeared.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳDid you know them?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳMy intimacy
with the pasha and his unlimited confidence had gained me an
introduction to them, and I had seen them above twenty times.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHave you any idea what became of them?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳYes, sir; I heard they had
fallen victims to their sorrow, and, perhaps, to their poverty. I was
not rich; my life was in constant danger; I could not seek them, to my
great regret.ГўВҖВҷ The president frowned imperceptibly. ГўВҖВҳGentlemen,ГўВҖВҷ said
he, ГўВҖВҳyou have heard the Comte de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs defence. Can you, sir,
produce any witnesses to the truth of what you have asserted?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳAlas,
no, monsieur,ГўВҖВҷ replied the count; ГўВҖВҳall those who surrounded the vizier,
or who knew me at his court, are either dead or gone away, I know not
where. I believe that I alone, of all my countrymen, survived that
dreadful war. I have only the letters of Ali Tepelini, which I have
placed before you; the ring, a token of his good-will, which is here;
and, lastly, the most convincing proof I can offer, after an anonymous
attack, and that is the absence of any witness against my veracity and
the purity of my military life.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңA murmur of approbation ran through the assembly; and at this moment,
Albert, had nothing more transpired, your fatherГўВҖВҷs cause had been
gained. It only remained to put it to the vote, when the president
resumed: ГўВҖВҳGentlemen and you, monsieur,ГўВҖВ”you will not be displeased, I
presume, to listen to one who calls himself a very important witness,
and who has just presented himself. He is, doubtless, come to prove the
perfect innocence of our colleague. Here is a letter I have just
received on the subject; shall it be read, or shall it be passed over?
and shall we take no notice of this incident?ГўВҖВҷ M. de Morcerf turned
pale, and clenched his hands on the papers he held. The committee
decided to hear the letter; the count was thoughtful and silent. The
president read:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMr. President,ГўВҖВ”I can furnish the committee of inquiry into the
conduct of the Lieutenant-General the Count of Morcerf in Epirus and in
Macedonia with important particulars.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe president paused, and the count turned pale. The president looked
at his auditors. ГўВҖВҳProceed,ГўВҖВҷ was heard on all sides. The president
resumed:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI was on the spot at the death of Ali Pasha. I was present during his
last moments. I know what is become of Vasiliki and HaydГғВ©e. I am at the
command of the committee, and even claim the honor of being heard. I
shall be in the lobby when this note is delivered to you.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAnd who is this witness, or rather this enemy?ГўВҖВҷ asked the count, in a
tone in which there was a visible alteration. ГўВҖВҳWe shall know, sir,ГўВҖВҷ
replied the president. ГўВҖВҳIs the committee willing to hear this
witness?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳYes, yes,ГўВҖВҷ they all said at once. The door-keeper was
called. ГўВҖВҳIs there anyone in the lobby?ГўВҖВҷ said the president.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYes, sir.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳWho is it?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳA woman, accompanied by a servant.ГўВҖВҷ Everyone
looked at his neighbor. ГўВҖВҳBring her in,ГўВҖВҷ said the president. Five
minutes after the door-keeper again appeared; all eyes were fixed on
the door, and I,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңshared the general expectation and
anxiety. Behind the door-keeper walked a woman enveloped in a large
veil, which completely concealed her. It was evident, from her figure
and the perfumes she had about her, that she was young and fastidious
in her tastes, but that was all. The president requested her to throw
aside her veil, and it was then seen that she was dressed in the
Grecian costume, and was remarkably beautiful.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңit was she.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho told you that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, I guess it. But go on, Beauchamp. You see I am calm and strong.
And yet we must be drawing near the disclosure.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. de Morcerf,ГўВҖВқ continued Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңlooked at this woman with
surprise and terror. Her lips were about to pass his sentence of life
or death. To the committee the adventure was so extraordinary and
curious, that the interest they had felt for the countГўВҖВҷs safety became
now quite a secondary matter. The president himself advanced to place a
seat for the young lady; but she declined availing herself of it. As
for the count, he had fallen on his chair; it was evident that his legs
refused to support him.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMadame,ГўВҖВҷ said the president, ГўВҖВҳyou have engaged to furnish the
committee with some important particulars respecting the affair at
Yanina, and you have stated that you were an eyewitness of the
event.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳI was, indeed,ГўВҖВҷ said the stranger, with a tone of sweet
melancholy, and with the sonorous voice peculiar to the East.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBut allow me to say that you must have been very young then.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳI was
four years old; but as those events deeply concerned me, not a single
detail has escaped my memory.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳIn what manner could these events
concern you? and who are you, that they should have made so deep an
impression on you?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳOn them depended my fatherГўВҖВҷs life,ГўВҖВҷ replied she.
ГўВҖВҳI am HaydГғВ©e, the daughter of Ali Tepelini, pasha of Yanina, and of
Vasiliki, his beloved wife.ГўВҖВҷ

40202m



ГўВҖВңThe blush of mingled pride and modesty which suddenly suffused the
cheeks of the young woman, the brilliancy of her eye, and her highly
important communication, produced an indescribable effect on the
assembly. As for the count, he could not have been more overwhelmed if
a thunderbolt had fallen at his feet and opened an immense gulf before
him.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMadame,ГўВҖВҷ replied the president, bowing with profound respect, ГўВҖВҳallow
me to ask one question; it shall be the last: Can you prove the
authenticity of what you have now stated?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI can, sir,ГўВҖВҷ said HaydГғВ©e, drawing from under her veil a satin satchel
highly perfumed; ГўВҖВҳfor here is the register of my birth, signed by my
father and his principal officers, and that of my baptism, my father
having consented to my being brought up in my motherГўВҖВҷs faith,ГўВҖВ”this
latter has been sealed by the grand primate of Macedonia and Epirus;
and lastly (and perhaps the most important), the record of the sale of
my person and that of my mother to the Armenian merchant El-Kobbir, by
the French officer, who, in his infamous bargain with the Porte, had
reserved as his part of the booty the wife and daughter of his
benefactor, whom he sold for the sum of four hundred thousand francs.ГўВҖВҷ
A greenish pallor spread over the countГўВҖВҷs cheeks, and his eyes became
bloodshot at these terrible imputations, which were listened to by the
assembly with ominous silence.

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e, still calm, but with a calmness more dreadful than the anger
of another would have been, handed to the president the record of her
sale, written in Arabic. It had been supposed some of the papers might
be in the Arabian, Romaic, or Turkish language, and the interpreter of
the House was in attendance. One of the noble peers, who was familiar
with the Arabic language, having studied it during the famous Egyptian
campaign, followed with his eye as the translator read aloud:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI, El-Kobbir, a slave-merchant, and purveyor of the harem of his
highness, acknowledge having received for transmission to the sublime
emperor, from the French lord, the Count of Monte Cristo, an emerald
valued at eight hundred thousand francs; as the ransom of a young
Christian slave of eleven years of age, named HaydГғВ©e, the acknowledged
daughter of the late lord Ali Tepelini, pasha of Yanina, and of
Vasiliki, his favorite; she having been sold to me seven years
previously, with her mother, who had died on arriving at
Constantinople, by a French colonel in the service of the Vizier Ali
Tepelini, named Fernand Mondego. The above-mentioned purchase was made
on his highnessГўВҖВҷs account, whose mandate I had, for the sum of four
hundred thousand francs.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳGiven at Constantinople, by authority of his highness, in the year
1247 of the Hegira.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳSigned, El-Kobbir.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThat this record should have all due authority, it shall bear the
imperial seal, which the vendor is bound to have affixed to it.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңNear the merchantГўВҖВҷs signature there was, indeed, the seal of the
sublime emperor. A dreadful silence followed the reading of this
document; the count could only stare, and his gaze, fixed as if
unconsciously on HaydГғВ©e, seemed one of fire and blood. ГўВҖВҳMadame,ГўВҖВҷ said
the president, ГўВҖВҳmay reference be made to the Count of Monte Cristo, who
is now, I believe, in Paris?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳSir,ГўВҖВҷ replied HaydГғВ©e, ГўВҖВҳthe Count of Monte Cristo, my foster-father,
has been in Normandy the last three days.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWho, then, has counselled you to take this step, one for which the
court is deeply indebted to you, and which is perfectly natural,
considering your birth and your misfortunes?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳSir,ГўВҖВҷ replied HaydГғВ©e, ГўВҖВҳI
have been led to take this step from a feeling of respect and grief.
Although a Christian, may God forgive me, I have always sought to
revenge my illustrious father. Since I set my foot in France, and knew
the traitor lived in Paris, I have watched carefully. I live retired in
the house of my noble protector, but I do it from choice. I love
retirement and silence, because I can live with my thoughts and
recollections of past days. But the Count of Monte Cristo surrounds me
with every paternal care, and I am ignorant of nothing which passes in
the world. I learn all in the silence of my apartments,ГўВҖВ”for instance, I
see all the newspapers, every periodical, as well as every new piece of
music; and by thus watching the course of the life of others, I learned
what had transpired this morning in the House of Peers, and what was to
take place this evening; then I wrote.ГўВҖВҷ

40204m



ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThen,ГўВҖВҷ remarked the president, ГўВҖВҳthe Count of Monte Cristo knows
nothing of your present proceedings?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳHe is quite unaware of them, and
I have but one fear, which is that he should disapprove of what I have
done. But it is a glorious day for me,ГўВҖВҷ continued the young girl,
raising her ardent gaze to heaven, ГўВҖВҳthat on which I find at last an
opportunity of avenging my father!ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThe count had not uttered one word the whole of this time. His
colleagues looked at him, and doubtless pitied his prospects, blighted
under the perfumed breath of a woman. His misery was depicted in
sinister lines on his countenance. ГўВҖВҳM. de Morcerf,ГўВҖВҷ said the president,
ГўВҖВҳdo you recognize this lady as the daughter of Ali Tepelini, pasha of
Yanina?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳNo,ГўВҖВҷ said Morcerf, attempting to rise, ГўВҖВҳit is a base plot,
contrived by my enemies.ГўВҖВҷ HaydГғВ©e, whose eyes had been fixed on the
door, as if expecting someone, turned hastily, and, seeing the count
standing, shrieked, ГўВҖВҳYou do not know me?ГўВҖВҷ said she. ГўВҖВҳWell, I
fortunately recognize you! You are Fernand Mondego, the French officer
who led the troops of my noble father! It is you who surrendered the
castle of Yanina! It is you who, sent by him to Constantinople, to
treat with the emperor for the life or death of your benefactor,
brought back a false mandate granting full pardon! It is you who, with
that mandate, obtained the pashaГўВҖВҷs ring, which gave you authority over
Selim, the fire-keeper! It is you who stabbed Selim. It is you who sold
us, my mother and me, to the merchant, El-Kobbir! Assassin, assassin,
assassin, you have still on your brow your masterГўВҖВҷs blood! Look,
gentlemen, all!ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңThese words had been pronounced with such enthusiasm and evident
truth, that every eye was fixed on the countГўВҖВҷs forehead, and he himself
passed his hand across it, as if he felt AliГўВҖВҷs blood still lingering
there. ГўВҖВҳYou positively recognize M. de Morcerf as the officer, Fernand
Mondego?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳIndeed I do!ГўВҖВҷ cried HaydГғВ©e. ГўВҖВҳOh, my mother, it was you who
said, ГўВҖВңYou were free, you had a beloved father, you were destined to be
almost a queen. Look well at that man; it is he who raised your
fatherГўВҖВҷs head on the point of a spear; it is he who sold us; it is he
who forsook us! Look well at his right hand, on which he has a large
wound; if you forgot his features, you would know him by that hand,
into which fell, one by one, the gold pieces of the merchant
El-Kobbir!ГўВҖВқ I know him! Ah, let him say now if he does not recognize
me!ГўВҖВҷ Each word fell like a dagger on Morcerf, and deprived him of a
portion of his energy; as she uttered the last, he hid his mutilated
hand hastily in his bosom, and fell back on his seat, overwhelmed by
wretchedness and despair. This scene completely changed the opinion of
the assembly respecting the accused count.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳCount of Morcerf,ГўВҖВҷ said the president, ГўВҖВҳdo not allow yourself to be
cast down; answer. The justice of the court is supreme and impartial as
that of God; it will not suffer you to be trampled on by your enemies
without giving you an opportunity of defending yourself. Shall further
inquiries be made? Shall two members of the House be sent to Yanina?
Speak!ГўВҖВҷ Morcerf did not reply. Then all the members looked at each
other with terror. They knew the countГўВҖВҷs energetic and violent temper;
it must be, indeed, a dreadful blow which would deprive him of courage
to defend himself. They expected that his stupefied silence would be
followed by a fiery outburst. ГўВҖВҳWell,ГўВҖВҷ asked the president, ГўВҖВҳwhat is
your decision?ГўВҖВҷ

40206m



ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳI have no reply to make,ГўВҖВҷ said the count in a low tone.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHas the daughter of Ali Tepelini spoken the truth?ГўВҖВҷ said the
president. ГўВҖВҳIs she, then, the terrible witness to whose charge you dare
not plead ГўВҖВңNot guiltyГўВҖВқ? Have you really committed the crimes of which
you are accused?ГўВҖВҷ The count looked around him with an expression which
might have softened tigers, but which could not disarm his judges. Then
he raised his eyes towards the ceiling, but withdrew then, immediately,
as if he feared the roof would open and reveal to his distressed view
that second tribunal called heaven, and that other judge named God.
Then, with a hasty movement, he tore open his coat, which seemed to
stifle him, and flew from the room like a madman; his footstep was
heard one moment in the corridor, then the rattling of his
carriage-wheels as he was driven rapidly away. ГўВҖВҳGentlemen,ГўВҖВҷ said the
president, when silence was restored, ГўВҖВҳis the Count of Morcerf
convicted of felony, treason, and conduct unbecoming a member of this
House?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳYes,ГўВҖВҷ replied all the members of the committee of inquiry with
a unanimous voice.

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e had remained until the close of the meeting. She heard the
countГўВҖВҷs sentence pronounced without betraying an expression of joy or
pity; then drawing her veil over her face she bowed majestically to the
councillors, and left with that dignified step which Virgil attributes
to his goddesses.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 87. The Challenge

Then,ГўВҖВқ continued Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңI took advantage of the silence and the
darkness to leave the house without being seen. The usher who had
introduced me was waiting for me at the door, and he conducted me
through the corridors to a private entrance opening into the Rue de
Vaugirard. I left with mingled feelings of sorrow and delight. Excuse
me, Albert,ГўВҖВ”sorrow on your account, and delight with that noble girl,
thus pursuing paternal vengeance. Yes, Albert, from whatever source the
blow may have proceededГўВҖВ”it may be from an enemy, but that enemy is only
the agent of Providence.ГўВҖВқ

Albert held his head between his hands; he raised his face, red with
shame and bathed in tears, and seizing BeauchampГўВҖВҷs arm:

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңmy life is ended. I cannot calmly say with you,
ГўВҖВҳProvidence has struck the blow;ГўВҖВҷ but I must discover who pursues me
with this hatred, and when I have found him I shall kill him, or he
will kill me. I rely on your friendship to assist me, Beauchamp, if
contempt has not banished it from your heart.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңContempt, my friend? How does this misfortune affect you? No, happily
that unjust prejudice is forgotten which made the son responsible for
the fatherГўВҖВҷs actions. Review your life, Albert; although it is only
just beginning, did a lovely summerГўВҖВҷs day ever dawn with greater purity
than has marked the commencement of your career? No, Albert, take my
advice. You are young and richГўВҖВ”leave ParisГўВҖВ”all is soon forgotten in
this great Babylon of excitement and changing tastes. You will return
after three or four years with a Russian princess for a bride, and no
one will think more of what occurred yesterday than if it had happened
sixteen years ago.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, my dear Beauchamp, thank you for the excellent feeling
which prompts your advice; but it cannot be. I have told you my wish,
or rather my determination. You understand that, interested as I am in
this affair, I cannot see it in the same light as you do. What appears
to you to emanate from a celestial source, seems to me to proceed from
one far less pure. Providence appears to me to have no share in this
affair; and happily so, for instead of the invisible, impalpable agent
of celestial rewards and punishments, I shall find one both palpable
and visible, on whom I shall revenge myself, I assure you, for all I
have suffered during the last month. Now, I repeat, Beauchamp, I wish
to return to human and material existence, and if you are still the
friend you profess to be, help me to discover the hand that struck the
blow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe it so,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңif you must have me descend to earth, I
submit; and if you will seek your enemy, I will assist you, and I will
engage to find him, my honor being almost as deeply interested as
yours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, you understand, Beauchamp, that we begin our search
immediately. Each momentГўВҖВҷs delay is an eternity for me. The calumniator
is not yet punished, and he may hope that he will not be; but, on my
honor, if he thinks so, he deceives himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, listen, Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, Beauchamp, I see you know something already; you will restore me
to life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not say there is any truth in what I am going to tell you, but it
is, at least, a ray of light in a dark night; by following it we may,
perhaps, discover something more certain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me; satisfy my impatience.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I will tell you what I did not like to mention on my return from
Yanina.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI went, of course, to the chief banker of the town to make inquiries.
At the first word, before I had even mentioned your fatherГўВҖВҷs nameГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳAh,ГўВҖВҷ said he. ГўВҖВҳI guess what brings you here.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳHow, and why?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBecause a fortnight since I was questioned on the same subject.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBy whom?ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBy a banker of Paris, my correspondent.ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhose name isГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҷ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳDanglars.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe!ГўВҖВқ cried Albert; ГўВҖВңyes, it is indeed he who has so long pursued my
father with jealous hatred. He, the man who would be popular, cannot
forgive the Count of Morcerf for being created a peer; and this
marriage broken off without a reason being assignedГўВҖВ”yes, it is all from
the same cause.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMake inquiries, Albert, but do not be angry without reason; make
inquiries, and if it be trueГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, if it be true,ГўВҖВқ cried the young man, ГўВҖВңhe shall pay me all I
have suffered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBeware, Morcerf, he is already an old man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will respect his age as he has respected the honor of my family; if
my father had offended him, why did he not attack him personally? Oh,
no, he was afraid to encounter him face to face.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not condemn you, Albert; I only restrain you. Act prudently.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, do not fear; besides, you will accompany me. Beauchamp, solemn
transactions should be sanctioned by a witness. Before this day closes,
if M. Danglars is guilty, he shall cease to live, or I shall die.
_Pardieu_, Beauchamp, mine shall be a splendid funeral!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen such resolutions are made, Albert, they should be promptly
executed. Do you wish to go to M. Danglars? Let us go immediately.ГўВҖВқ

They sent for a cabriolet. On entering the bankerГўВҖВҷs mansion, they
perceived the phaeton and servant of M. Andrea Cavalcanti.

ГўВҖВңAh! _parbleu!_ thatГўВҖВҷs good,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, with a gloomy tone. ГўВҖВңIf M.
Danglars will not fight with me, I will kill his son-in-law; Cavalcanti
will certainly fight.ГўВҖВқ

The servant announced the young man; but the banker, recollecting what
had transpired the day before, did not wish him admitted. It was,
however, too late; Albert had followed the footman, and, hearing the
order given, forced the door open, and followed by Beauchamp found
himself in the bankerГўВҖВҷs study.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ cried the latter, ГўВҖВңam I no longer at liberty to receive whom I
choose in my house? You appear to forget yourself sadly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, coldly; ГўВҖВңthere are circumstances in which one
cannot, except through cowardice,ГўВҖВ”I offer you that refuge,ГўВҖВ”refuse to
admit certain persons at least.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is your errand, then, with me, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, drawing near, and without apparently noticing
Cavalcanti, who stood with his back towards the fireplaceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI mean to
propose a meeting in some retired corner where no one will interrupt us
for ten minutes; that will be sufficientГўВҖВ”where two men having met, one
of them will remain on the ground.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars turned pale; Cavalcanti moved a step forward, and Albert
turned towards him.

ГўВҖВңAnd you, too,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңcome, if you like, monsieur; you have a
claim, being almost one of the family, and I will give as many
rendezvous of that kind as I can find persons willing to accept them.ГўВҖВқ

Cavalcanti looked at Danglars with a stupefied air, and the latter,
making an effort, arose and stepped between the two young men. AlbertГўВҖВҷs
attack on Andrea had placed him on a different footing, and he hoped
this visit had another cause than that he had at first supposed.

ГўВҖВңIndeed, sir,ГўВҖВқ said he to Albert, ГўВҖВңif you are come to quarrel with this
gentleman because I have preferred him to you, I shall resign the case
to the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou mistake, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf with a gloomy smile; ГўВҖВңI am not
referring in the least to matrimony, and I only addressed myself to M.
Cavalcanti because he appeared disposed to interfere between us. In one
respect you are right, for I am ready to quarrel with everyone today;
but you have the first claim, M. Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

40212m



ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, pale with anger and fear, ГўВҖВңI warn you, when I
have the misfortune to meet with a mad dog, I kill it; and far from
thinking myself guilty of a crime, I believe I do society a kindness.
Now, if you are mad and try to bite me, I will kill you without pity.
Is it my fault that your father has dishonored himself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, miserable wretch!ГўВҖВқ cried Morcerf, ГўВҖВңit is your fault.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars retreated a few steps. ГўВҖВңMy fault?ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңyou must be mad!
What do I know of the Grecian affair? Have I travelled in that country?
Did I advise your father to sell the castle of YaninaГўВҖВ”to betrayГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSilence!ГўВҖВқ said Albert, with a thundering voice. ГўВҖВңNo; it is not you who
have directly made this exposure and brought this sorrow on us, but you
hypocritically provoked it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; you! How came it known?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI suppose you read it in the paper in the account from Yanina?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho wrote to Yanina?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Yanina?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. Who wrote for particulars concerning my father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI imagine anyone may write to Yanina.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut one person only wrote!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne only?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; and that was you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI, doubtless, wrote. It appears to me that when about to marry your
daughter to a young man, it is right to make some inquiries respecting
his family; it is not only a right, but a duty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou wrote, sir, knowing what answer you would receive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI, indeed? I assure you,ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars, with a confidence and
security proceeding less from fear than from the interest he really
felt for the young man, ГўВҖВңI solemnly declare to you, that I should never
have thought of writing to Yanina, did I know anything of Ali PashaГўВҖВҷs
misfortunes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho, then, urged you to write? Tell me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu!_ it was the most simple thing in the world. I was speaking
of your fatherГўВҖВҷs past history. I said the origin of his fortune
remained obscure. The person to whom I addressed my scruples asked me
where your father had acquired his property? I answered, ГўВҖВҳIn
Greece.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳThen,ГўВҖВҷ said he, ГўВҖВҳwrite to Yanina.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who thus advised you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo other than your friend, Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo told you to write to Yanina?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; and I wrote, and will show you my correspondence, if you like.ГўВҖВқ

Albert and Beauchamp looked at each other.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, who had not yet spoken, ГўВҖВңyou appear to accuse
the count, who is absent from Paris at this moment, and cannot justify
himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI accuse no one, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңI relate, and I will repeat
before the count what I have said to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes the count know what answer you received?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I showed it to him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid he know my fatherГўВҖВҷs Christian name was Fernand, and his family
name Mondego?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I had told him that long since, and I did only what any other
would have done in my circumstances, and perhaps less. When, the day
after the arrival of this answer, your father came by the advice of
Monte Cristo to ask my daughterГўВҖВҷs hand for you, I decidedly refused
him, but without any explanation or exposure. In short, why should I
have any more to do with the affair? How did the honor or disgrace of
M. de Morcerf affect me? It neither increased nor decreased my income.ГўВҖВқ

Albert felt the blood mounting to his brow; there was no doubt upon the
subject. Danglars defended himself with the baseness, but at the same
time with the assurance, of a man who speaks the truth, at least in
part, if not whollyГўВҖВ”not for conscienceГўВҖВҷ sake, but through fear.
Besides, what was Morcerf seeking? It was not whether Danglars or Monte
Cristo was more or less guilty; it was a man who would answer for the
offence, whether trifling or serious; it was a man who would fight, and
it was evident Danglars would not fight.

In addition to this, everything forgotten or unperceived before
presented itself now to his recollection. Monte Cristo knew everything,
as he had bought the daughter of Ali Pasha; and, knowing everything, he
had advised Danglars to write to Yanina. The answer known, he had
yielded to AlbertГўВҖВҷs wish to be introduced to HaydГғВ©e, and allowed the
conversation to turn on the death of Ali, and had not opposed HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs
recital (but having, doubtless, warned the young girl, in the few
Romaic words he spoke to her, not to implicate MorcerfГўВҖВҷs father).
Besides, had he not begged of Morcerf not to mention his fatherГўВҖВҷs name
before HaydГғВ©e? Lastly, he had taken Albert to Normandy when he knew the
final blow was near. There could be no doubt that all had been
calculated and previously arranged; Monte Cristo then was in league
with his fatherГўВҖВҷs enemies. Albert took Beauchamp aside, and
communicated these ideas to him.

ГўВҖВңYou are right,ГўВҖВқ said the latter; ГўВҖВңM. Danglars has only been a
secondary agent in this sad affair, and it is of M. de Monte Cristo
that you must demand an explanation.ГўВҖВқ

Albert turned.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he to Danglars, ГўВҖВңunderstand that I do not take a final
leave of you; I must ascertain if your insinuations are just, and am
going now to inquire of the Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

He bowed to the banker, and went out with Beauchamp, without appearing
to notice Cavalcanti. Danglars accompanied him to the door, where he
again assured Albert that no motive of personal hatred had influenced
him against the Count of Morcerf.



 Chapter 88. The Insult

At the bankerГўВҖВҷs door Beauchamp stopped Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңjust now I told you it was of M. de Monte Cristo
you must demand an explanation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; and we are going to his house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReflect, Morcerf, one moment before you go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn what shall I reflect?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the importance of the step you are taking.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it more serious than going to M. Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; M. Danglars is a money-lover, and those who love money, you know,
think too much of what they risk to be easily induced to fight a duel.
The other is, on the contrary, to all appearance a true nobleman; but
do you not fear to find him a bully?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI only fear one thing; namely, to find a man who will not fight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not be alarmed,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңhe will meet you. My only fear is
that he will be too strong for you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said Morcerf, with a sweet smile, ГўВҖВңthat is what I wish.
The happiest thing that could occur to me, would be to die in my
fatherГўВҖВҷs stead; that would save us all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour mother would die of grief.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy poor mother!ГўВҖВқ said Albert, passing his hand across his eyes, ГўВҖВңI
know she would; but better so than die of shame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you quite decided, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; let us go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut do you think we shall find the count at home?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe intended returning some hours after me, and doubtless he is now at
home.ГўВҖВқ

They ordered the driver to take them to No. 30 Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es.
Beauchamp wished to go in alone, but Albert observed that as this was
an unusual circumstance he might be allowed to deviate from the usual
etiquette of duels. The cause which the young man espoused was one so
sacred that Beauchamp had only to comply with all his wishes; he
yielded and contented himself with following Morcerf. Albert sprang
from the porterГўВҖВҷs lodge to the steps. He was received by Baptistin. The
count had, indeed, just arrived, but he was in his bath, and had
forbidden that anyone should be admitted.

ГўВҖВңBut after his bath?ГўВҖВқ asked Morcerf.

ГўВҖВңMy master will go to dinner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd after dinner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe will sleep an hour.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is going to the Opera.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you sure of it?ГўВҖВқ asked Albert.

ГўВҖВңQuite, sir; my master has ordered his horses at eight oГўВҖВҷclock
precisely.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery good,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert; ГўВҖВңthat is all I wished to know.ГўВҖВқ

Then, turning towards Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңIf you have anything to attend to,
Beauchamp, do it directly; if you have any appointment for this
evening, defer it till tomorrow. I depend on you to accompany me to the
Opera; and if you can, bring ChГғВўteau-Renaud with you.ГўВҖВқ

Beauchamp availed himself of AlbertГўВҖВҷs permission, and left him,
promising to call for him at a quarter before eight. On his return
home, Albert expressed his wish to Franz Debray, and Morrel, to see
them at the Opera that evening. Then he went to see his mother, who
since the events of the day before had refused to see anyone, and had
kept her room. He found her in bed, overwhelmed with grief at this
public humiliation.

The sight of Albert produced the effect which might naturally be
expected on MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; she pressed her sonГўВҖВҷs hand and sobbed aloud, but
her tears relieved her. Albert stood one moment speechless by the side
of his motherГўВҖВҷs bed. It was evident from his pale face and knit brows
that his resolution to revenge himself was growing weaker.

ГўВҖВңMy dear mother,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdo you know if M. de Morcerf has any
enemy?ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs started; she noticed that the young man did not say ГўВҖВңmy
father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy son,ГўВҖВқ she said, ГўВҖВңpersons in the countГўВҖВҷs situation have many secret
enemies. Those who are known are not the most dangerous.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it, and appeal to your penetration. You are of so superior a
mind, nothing escapes you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy do you say so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause, for instance, you noticed on the evening of the ball we gave,
that M. de Monte Cristo would eat nothing in our house.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs raised herself on her feverish arm.

ГўВҖВңM. de Monte Cristo!ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed; ГўВҖВңand how is he connected with the
question you asked me?ГўВҖВқ

40219m



ГўВҖВңYou know, mother, M. de Monte Cristo is almost an Oriental, and it is
customary with the Orientals to secure full liberty for revenge by not
eating or drinking in the houses of their enemies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you say M. de Monte Cristo is our enemy?ГўВҖВқ replied MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,
becoming paler than the sheet which covered her. ГўВҖВңWho told you so? Why,
you are mad, Albert! M. de Monte Cristo has only shown us kindness. M.
de Monte Cristo saved your life; you yourself presented him to us. Oh,
I entreat you, my son, if you had entertained such an idea, dispel it;
and my counsel to youГўВҖВ”nay, my prayerГўВҖВ”is to retain his friendship.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMother,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, ГўВҖВңyou have special reasons for telling
me to conciliate that man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, blushing as rapidly as she had turned pale, and
again becoming paler than ever.

ГўВҖВңYes, doubtless; and is it not that he may never do us any harm?ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs shuddered, and, fixing on her son a scrutinizing gaze, ГўВҖВңYou
speak strangely,ГўВҖВқ said she to Albert, ГўВҖВңand you appear to have some
singular prejudices. What has the count done? Three days since you were
with him in Normandy; only three days since we looked on him as our
best friend.ГўВҖВқ

An ironical smile passed over AlbertГўВҖВҷs lips. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs saw it and with
the double instinct of woman and mother guessed all; but as she was
prudent and strong-minded she concealed both her sorrows and her fears.
Albert was silent; an instant after, the countess resumed:

ГўВҖВңYou came to inquire after my health; I will candidly acknowledge that
I am not well. You should install yourself here, and cheer my solitude.
I do not wish to be left alone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMother,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңyou know how gladly I would obey your
wish, but an urgent and important affair obliges me to leave you for
the whole evening.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ replied MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, sighing, ГўВҖВңgo, Albert; I will not make you a
slave to your filial piety.ГўВҖВқ

Albert pretended he did not hear, bowed to his mother, and quitted her.
Scarcely had he shut her door, when MercГғВ©dГғВЁs called a confidential
servant, and ordered him to follow Albert wherever he should go that
evening, and to come and tell her immediately what he observed. Then
she rang for her ladyГўВҖВҷs maid, and, weak as she was, she dressed, in
order to be ready for whatever might happen. The footmanГўВҖВҷs mission was
an easy one. Albert went to his room, and dressed with unusual care. At
ten minutes to eight Beauchamp arrived; he had seen ChГғВўteau-Renaud, who
had promised to be in the orchestra before the curtain was raised. Both
got into AlbertГўВҖВҷs _coupГғВ©_; and, as the young man had no reason to
conceal where he was going, he called aloud, ГўВҖВңTo the Opera.ГўВҖВқ In his
impatience he arrived before the beginning of the performance.

40221m



ChГғВўteau-Renaud was at his post; apprised by Beauchamp of the
circumstances, he required no explanation from Albert. The conduct of
the son in seeking to avenge his father was so natural that
ChГғВўteau-Renaud did not seek to dissuade him, and was content with
renewing his assurances of devotion. Debray was not yet come, but
Albert knew that he seldom lost a scene at the Opera.

Albert wandered about the theatre until the curtain was drawn up. He
hoped to meet with M. de Monte Cristo either in the lobby or on the
stairs. The bell summoned him to his seat, and he entered the orchestra
with ChГғВўteau-Renaud and Beauchamp. But his eyes scarcely quitted the
box between the columns, which remained obstinately closed during the
whole of the first act. At last, as Albert was looking at his watch for
about the hundredth time, at the beginning of the second act the door
opened, and Monte Cristo entered, dressed in black, and, leaning over
the front of the box, looked around the pit. Morrel followed him, and
looked also for his sister and brother in-law; he soon discovered them
in another box, and kissed his hand to them.

The count, in his survey of the pit, encountered a pale face and
threatening eyes, which evidently sought to gain his attention. He
recognized Albert, but thought it better not to notice him, as he
looked so angry and discomposed. Without communicating his thoughts to
his companion, he sat down, drew out his opera-glass, and looked
another way. Although apparently not noticing Albert, he did not,
however, lose sight of him, and when the curtain fell at the end of the
second act, he saw him leave the orchestra with his two friends. Then
his head was seen passing at the back of the boxes, and the count knew
that the approaching storm was intended to fall on him. He was at the
moment conversing cheerfully with Morrel, but he was well prepared for
what might happen.

The door opened, and Monte Cristo, turning round, saw Albert, pale and
trembling, followed by Beauchamp and ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ cried he, with that benevolent politeness which distinguished
his salutation from the common civilities of the world, ГўВҖВңmy cavalier
has attained his object. Good-evening, M. de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

The countenance of this man, who possessed such extraordinary control
over his feelings, expressed the most perfect cordiality. Morrel only
then recollected the letter he had received from the viscount, in
which, without assigning any reason, he begged him to go to the Opera,
but he understood that something terrible was brooding.

ГўВҖВңWe are not come here, sir, to exchange hypocritical expressions of
politeness, or false professions of friendship,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңbut to
demand an explanation.ГўВҖВқ

The young manГўВҖВҷs trembling voice was scarcely audible.

ГўВҖВңAn explanation at the Opera?ГўВҖВқ said the count, with that calm tone and
penetrating eye which characterize the man who knows his cause is good.
ГўВҖВңLittle acquainted as I am with the habits of Parisians, I should not
have thought this the place for such a demand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, if people will shut themselves up,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңand cannot be
seen because they are bathing, dining, or asleep, we must avail
ourselves of the opportunity whenever they are to be seen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am not difficult of access, sir; for yesterday, if my memory does
not deceive me, you were at my house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYesterday I was at your house, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the young man; ГўВҖВңbecause then
I knew not who you were.ГўВҖВқ

In pronouncing these words Albert had raised his voice so as to be
heard by those in the adjoining boxes and in the lobby. Thus the
attention of many was attracted by this altercation.

ГўВҖВңWhere are you come from, sir? ГўВҖВң said Monte Cristo ГўВҖВңYou do not appear
to be in the possession of your senses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProvided I understand your perfidy, sir, and succeed in making you
understand that I will be revenged, I shall be reasonable enough,ГўВҖВқ said
Albert furiously.

ГўВҖВңI do not understand you, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңand if I did,
your tone is too high. I am at home here, and I alone have a right to
raise my voice above anotherГўВҖВҷs. Leave the box, sir!ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo pointed towards the door with the most commanding dignity.

ГўВҖВңAh, I shall know how to make you leave your home!ГўВҖВқ replied Albert,
clasping in his convulsed grasp the glove, which Monte Cristo did not
lose sight of.

ГўВҖВңWell, well,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo quietly, ГўВҖВңI see you wish to quarrel
with me; but I would give you one piece of advice, which you will do
well to keep in mind. It is in poor taste to make a display of a
challenge. Display is not becoming to everyone, M. de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

At this name a murmur of astonishment passed around the group of
spectators of this scene. They had talked of no one but Morcerf the
whole day. Albert understood the allusion in a moment, and was about to
throw his glove at the count, when Morrel seized his hand, while
Beauchamp and ChГғВўteau-Renaud, fearing the scene would surpass the
limits of a challenge, held him back. But Monte Cristo, without rising,
and leaning forward in his chair, merely stretched out his arm and,
taking the damp, crushed glove from the clenched hand of the young man:

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he in a solemn tone, ГўВҖВңI consider your glove thrown, and
will return it to you wrapped around a bullet. Now leave me or I will
summon my servants to throw you out at the door.ГўВҖВқ

Wild, almost unconscious, and with eyes inflamed, Albert stepped back,
and Morrel closed the door. Monte Cristo took up his glass again as if
nothing had happened; his face was like marble, and his heart was like
bronze. Morrel whispered, ГўВҖВңWhat have you done to him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI? NothingГўВҖВ”at least personally,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңBut there must be some cause for this strange scene.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Count of MorcerfГўВҖВҷs adventure exasperates the young man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you anything to do with it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was through HaydГғВ©e that the Chamber was informed of his fatherГўВҖВҷs
treason.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. ГўВҖВңI had been told, but would not credit it, that
the Grecian slave I have seen with you here in this very box was the
daughter of Ali Pasha.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is true, nevertheless.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңI understand it all, and this scene was
premeditated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes. Albert wrote to request me to come to the Opera, doubtless that I
might be a witness to the insult he meant to offer you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProbably,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with his imperturbable tranquillity.

ГўВҖВңBut what shall you do with him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith whom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith Albert.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat shall I do with Albert? As certainly, Maximilian, as I now press
your hand, I shall kill him before ten oГўВҖВҷclock tomorrow morning.ГўВҖВқ
Morrel, in his turn, took Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs hand in both of his, and he
shuddered to feel how cold and steady it was.

ГўВҖВңAh, count,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңhis father loves him so much!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not speak to me of that,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, with the first
movement of anger he had betrayed; ГўВҖВңI will make him suffer.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel, amazed, let fall Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs hand. ГўВҖВңCount, count!ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңDear Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ interrupted the count, ГўВҖВңlisten how adorably Duprez
is singing that line,ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВҳO Mathilde! idole de mon ГғВўme!ГўВҖВҷ


ГўВҖВңI was the first to discover Duprez at Naples, and the first to applaud
him. Bravo, bravo!ГўВҖВқ

Morrel saw it was useless to say more, and refrained. The curtain,
which had risen at the close of the scene with Albert, again fell, and
a rap was heard at the door.

ГўВҖВңCome in,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with a voice that betrayed not the least
emotion; and immediately Beauchamp appeared. ГўВҖВңGood-evening, M.
Beauchamp,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, as if this was the first time he had
seen the journalist that evening; ГўВҖВңbe seated.ГўВҖВқ

Beauchamp bowed, and, sitting down, ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI just now
accompanied M. de Morcerf, as you saw.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd that means,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, laughing, ГўВҖВңthat you had,
probably, just dined together. I am happy to see, M. Beauchamp, that
you are more sober than he was.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said M. Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңAlbert was wrong, I acknowledge, to betray
so much anger, and I come, on my own account, to apologize for him. And
having done so, entirely on my own account, be it understood, I would
add that I believe you too gentlemanly to refuse giving him some
explanation concerning your connection with Yanina. Then I will add two
words about the young Greek girl.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo motioned him to be silent. ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said he, laughing,
ГўВҖВңthere are all my hopes about to be destroyed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңDoubtless you wish to make me appear a very eccentric character. I am,
in your opinion, a Lara, a Manfred, a Lord Ruthven; then, just as I am
arriving at the climax, you defeat your own end, and seek to make an
ordinary man of me. You bring me down to your own level, and demand
explanations! Indeed, M. Beauchamp, it is quite laughable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYet,ГўВҖВқ replied Beauchamp haughtily, ГўВҖВңthere are occasions when probity
commandsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Beauchamp,ГўВҖВқ interposed this strange man, ГўВҖВңthe Count of Monte Cristo
bows to none but the Count of Monte Cristo himself. Say no more, I
entreat you. I do what I please, M. Beauchamp, and it is always well
done.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man, ГўВҖВңhonest men are not to be paid with such
coin. I require honorable guaranties.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am, sir, a living guaranty,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, motionless, but
with a threatening look; ГўВҖВңwe have both blood in our veins which we wish
to shedГўВҖВ”that is our mutual guaranty. Tell the viscount so, and that
tomorrow, before ten oГўВҖВҷclock, I shall see what color his is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I have only to make arrangements for the duel,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңIt is quite immaterial to me,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңand it was very
unnecessary to disturb me at the Opera for such a trifle. In France
people fight with the sword or pistol, in the colonies with the
carbine, in Arabia with the dagger. Tell your client that, although I
am the insulted party, in order to carry out my eccentricity, I leave
him the choice of arms, and will accept without discussion, without
dispute, anything, even combat by drawing lots, which is always stupid,
but with me different from other people, as I am sure to gain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSure to gain!ГўВҖВқ repeated Beauchamp, looking with amazement at the
count.

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, slightly shrugging his shoulders;
ГўВҖВңotherwise I would not fight with M. de Morcerf. I shall kill himГўВҖВ”I
cannot help it. Only by a single line this evening at my house let me
know the arms and the hour; I do not like to be kept waiting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPistols, then, at eight oГўВҖВҷclock, in the Bois de Vincennes,ГўВҖВқ said
Beauchamp, quite disconcerted, not knowing if he was dealing with an
arrogant braggadocio or a supernatural being.

ГўВҖВңVery well, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңNow all that is settled, do let
me see the performance, and tell your friend Albert not to come any
more this evening; he will hurt himself with all his ill-chosen
barbarisms: let him go home and go to sleep.ГўВҖВқ

Beauchamp left the box, perfectly amazed.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, turning towards Morrel, ГўВҖВңI may depend upon
you, may I not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңI am at your service, count; stillГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is desirable I should know the real cause.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is to say, you would rather not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe young man himself is acting blindfolded, and knows not the true
cause, which is known only to God and to me; but I give you my word,
Morrel, that God, who does know it, will be on our side.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEnough,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңwho is your second witness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know no one in Paris, Morrel, on whom I could confer that honor
besides you and your brother Emmanuel. Do you think Emmanuel would
oblige me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will answer for him, count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell? that is all I require. Tomorrow morning, at seven oГўВҖВҷclock, you
will be with me, will you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe will.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush, the curtain is rising. Listen! I never lose a note of this opera
if I can avoid it; the music of _William Tell_ is so sweet.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 89. The Night

Monte Cristo waited, according to his usual custom, until Duprez had
sung his famous ГўВҖВң_Suivez-moi!_ГўВҖВқ then he rose and went out. Morrel took
leave of him at the door, renewing his promise to be with him the next
morning at seven oГўВҖВҷclock, and to bring Emmanuel. Then he stepped into
his _coupГғВ©_, calm and smiling, and was at home in five minutes. No one
who knew the count could mistake his expression when, on entering, he
said:

ГўВҖВңAli, bring me my pistols with the ivory cross.ГўВҖВқ

Ali brought the box to his master, who examined the weapons with a
solicitude very natural to a man who is about to intrust his life to a
little powder and shot. These were pistols of an especial pattern,
which Monte Cristo had had made for target practice in his own room. A
cap was sufficient to drive out the bullet, and from the adjoining room
no one would have suspected that the count was, as sportsmen would say,
keeping his hand in.

He was just taking one up and looking for the point to aim at on a
little iron plate which served him as a target, when his study door
opened, and Baptistin entered. Before he had spoken a word, the count
saw in the next room a veiled woman, who had followed closely after
Baptistin, and now, seeing the count with a pistol in his hand and
swords on the table, rushed in. Baptistin looked at his master, who
made a sign to him, and he went out, closing the door after him.

ГўВҖВңWho are you, madame?ГўВҖВқ said the count to the veiled woman.

40227m



The stranger cast one look around her, to be certain that they were
quite alone; then bending as if she would have knelt, and joining her
hands, she said with an accent of despair:

ГўВҖВңEdmond, you will not kill my son!ГўВҖВқ

The count retreated a step, uttered a slight exclamation, and let fall
the pistol he held.

ГўВҖВңWhat name did you pronounce then, Madame de Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңYours!ГўВҖВқ cried she, throwing back her veil,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyours, which I alone,
perhaps, have not forgotten. Edmond, it is not Madame de Morcerf who is
come to you, it is MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs is dead, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI know no one now of
that name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs lives, sir, and she remembers, for she alone recognized you
when she saw you, and even before she saw you, by your voice,
Edmond,ГўВҖВ”by the simple sound of your voice; and from that moment she has
followed your steps, watched you, feared you, and she needs not to
inquire what hand has dealt the blow which now strikes M. de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFernand, do you mean?ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, with bitter irony; ГўВҖВңsince
we are recalling names, let us remember them all.ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo had
pronounced the name of Fernand with such an expression of hatred that
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs felt a thrill of horror run through every vein.

ГўВҖВңYou see, Edmond, I am not mistaken, and have cause to say, ГўВҖВҳSpare my
son!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who told you, madame, that I have any hostile intentions against
your son?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo one, in truth; but a mother has twofold sight. I guessed all; I
followed him this evening to the Opera, and, concealed in a parquet
box, have seen all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you have seen all, madame, you know that the son of Fernand has
publicly insulted me,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with awful calmness.

ГўВҖВңOh, for pityГўВҖВҷs sake!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have seen that he would have thrown his glove in my face if
Morrel, one of my friends, had not stopped him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen to me, my son has also guessed who you are,ГўВҖВ”he attributes his
fatherГўВҖВҷs misfortunes to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame, you are mistaken, they are not misfortunes,ГўВҖВ”it is a
punishment. It is not I who strike M. de Morcerf; it is Providence
which punishes him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd why do you represent Providence?ГўВҖВқ cried MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңWhy do you
remember when it forgets? What are Yanina and its vizier to you,
Edmond? What injury has Fernand Mondego done you in betraying Ali
Tepelini?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңall this is an affair between the
French captain and the daughter of Vasiliki. It does not concern me,
you are right; and if I have sworn to revenge myself, it is not on the
French captain, or the Count of Morcerf, but on the fisherman Fernand,
the husband of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs the Catalane.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, sir!ГўВҖВқ cried the countess, ГўВҖВңhow terrible a vengeance for a fault
which fatality made me commit!ГўВҖВ”for I am the only culprit, Edmond, and
if you owe revenge to anyone, it is to me, who had not fortitude to
bear your absence and my solitude.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңwhy was I absent? And why were you
alone?ГўВҖВқ

40231m



ГўВҖВңBecause you had been arrested, Edmond, and were a prisoner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd why was I arrested? Why was I a prisoner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңYou do not, madame; at least, I hope not. But I will tell you. I was
arrested and became a prisoner because, under the arbor of La RГғВ©serve,
the day before I was to marry you, a man named Danglars wrote this
letter, which the fisherman Fernand himself posted.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo went to a secretaire, opened a drawer by a spring, from
which he took a paper which had lost its original color, and the ink of
which had become of a rusty hueГўВҖВ”this he placed in the hands of
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. It was DanglarsГўВҖВҷ letter to the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, which the
Count of Monte Cristo, disguised as a clerk from the house of Thomson &
French, had taken from the file against Edmond DantГғВЁs, on the day he
had paid the two hundred thousand francs to M. de Boville. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs
read with terror the following lines:

ГўВҖВңThe kingГўВҖВҷs attorney is informed by a friend to the throne and religion
that one Edmond DantГғВЁs, second in command on board the _Pharaon_, this
day arrived from Smyrna, after having touched at Naples and
Porto-Ferrajo, is the bearer of a letter from Murat to the usurper, and
of another letter from the usurper to the Bonapartist club in Paris.
Ample corroboration of this statement may be obtained by arresting the
above-mentioned Edmond DantГғВЁs, who either carries the letter for Paris
about with him, or has it at his fatherГўВҖВҷs abode. Should it not be found
in possession of either father or son, then it will assuredly be
discovered in the cabin belonging to the said DantГғВЁs on board the
_Pharaon_.ГўВҖВқ


ГўВҖВңHow dreadful!ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, passing her hand across her brow, moist
with perspiration; ГўВҖВңand that letterГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI bought it for two hundred thousand francs, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo; ГўВҖВңbut that is a trifle, since it enables me to justify myself to
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd the result of that letterГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou well know, madame, was my arrest; but you do not know how long
that arrest lasted. You do not know that I remained for fourteen years
within a quarter of a league of you, in a dungeon in the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf.
You do not know that every day of those fourteen years I renewed the
vow of vengeance which I had made the first day; and yet I was not
aware that you had married Fernand, my calumniator, and that my father
had died of hunger!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan it be?ГўВҖВқ cried MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, shuddering.

ГўВҖВңThat is what I heard on leaving my prison fourteen years after I had
entered it; and that is why, on account of the living MercГғВ©dГғВЁs and my
deceased father, I have sworn to revenge myself on Fernand, andГўВҖВ”I have
revenged myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you are sure the unhappy Fernand did that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am satisfied, madame, that he did what I have told you; besides,
that is not much more odious than that a Frenchman by adoption should
pass over to the English; that a Spaniard by birth should have fought
against the Spaniards; that a stipendiary of Ali should have betrayed
and murdered Ali. Compared with such things, what is the letter you
have just read?ГўВҖВ”a loverГўВҖВҷs deception, which the woman who has married
that man ought certainly to forgive; but not so the lover who was to
have married her. Well, the French did not avenge themselves on the
traitor, the Spaniards did not shoot the traitor, Ali in his tomb left
the traitor unpunished; but I, betrayed, sacrificed, buried, have risen
from my tomb, by the grace of God, to punish that man. He sends me for
that purpose, and here I am.ГўВҖВқ

The poor womanГўВҖВҷs head and arms fell; her legs bent under her, and she
fell on her knees.

ГўВҖВңForgive, Edmond, forgive for my sake, who love you still!ГўВҖВқ

The dignity of the wife checked the fervor of the lover and the mother.
Her forehead almost touched the carpet, when the count sprang forward
and raised her. Then seated on a chair, she looked at the manly
countenance of Monte Cristo, on which grief and hatred still impressed
a threatening expression.

ГўВҖВңNot crush that accursed race?ГўВҖВқ murmured he; ГўВҖВңabandon my purpose at the
moment of its accomplishment? Impossible, madame, impossible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEdmond,ГўВҖВқ said the poor mother, who tried every means, ГўВҖВңwhen I call you
Edmond, why do you not call me MercГғВ©dГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ repeated Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs! Well yes, you are right;
that name has still its charms, and this is the first time for a long
period that I have pronounced it so distinctly. Oh, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, I have
uttered your name with the sigh of melancholy, with the groan of
sorrow, with the last effort of despair; I have uttered it when frozen
with cold, crouched on the straw in my dungeon; I have uttered it,
consumed with heat, rolling on the stone floor of my prison. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,
I must revenge myself, for I suffered fourteen years,ГўВҖВ”fourteen years I
wept, I cursed; now I tell you, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, I must revenge myself.ГўВҖВқ

The count, fearing to yield to the entreaties of her he had so ardently
loved, called his sufferings to the assistance of his hatred.

ГўВҖВңRevenge yourself, then, Edmond,ГўВҖВқ cried the poor mother; ГўВҖВңbut let your
vengeance fall on the culprits,ГўВҖВ”on him, on me, but not on my son!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is written in the good book,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat the sins of
the fathers shall fall upon their children to the third and fourth
generation. Since God himself dictated those words to his prophet, why
should I seek to make myself better than God?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEdmond,ГўВҖВқ continued MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, with her arms extended towards the count,
ГўВҖВңsince I first knew you, I have adored your name, have respected your
memory. Edmond, my friend, do not compel me to tarnish that noble and
pure image reflected incessantly on the mirror of my heart. Edmond, if
you knew all the prayers I have addressed to God for you while I
thought you were living and since I have thought you must be dead! Yes,
dead, alas! I imagined your dead body buried at the foot of some gloomy
tower, or cast to the bottom of a pit by hateful jailers, and I wept!
What could I do for you, Edmond, besides pray and weep? Listen; for ten
years I dreamed each night the same dream. I had been told that you had
endeavored to escape; that you had taken the place of another prisoner;
that you had slipped into the winding sheet of a dead body; that you
had been thrown alive from the top of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, and that the
cry you uttered as you dashed upon the rocks first revealed to your
jailers that they were your murderers. Well, Edmond, I swear to you, by
the head of that son for whom I entreat your pity,ГўВҖВ”Edmond, for ten
years I saw every night every detail of that frightful tragedy, and for
ten years I heard every night the cry which awoke me, shuddering and
cold. And I, too, EdmondГўВҖВ”oh! believe meГўВҖВ”guilty as I wasГўВҖВ”oh, yes, I,
too, have suffered much!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you known what it is to have your father starve to death in your
absence?ГўВҖВқ cried Monte Cristo, thrusting his hands into his hair; ГўВҖВңhave
you seen the woman you loved giving her hand to your rival, while you
were perishing at the bottom of a dungeon?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ interrupted MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңbut I have seen him whom I loved on the
point of murdering my son.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs uttered these words with such deep anguish, with an accent of
such intense despair, that Monte Cristo could not restrain a sob. The
lion was daunted; the avenger was conquered.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you ask of me?ГўВҖВқ said he,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyour sonГўВҖВҷs life? Well, he shall
live!ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs uttered a cry which made the tears start from Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs
eyes; but these tears disappeared almost instantaneously, for,
doubtless, God had sent some angel to collect themГўВҖВ”far more precious
were they in his eyes than the richest pearls of Guzerat and Ophir.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said she, seizing the countГўВҖВҷs hand and raising it to her lips;
ГўВҖВңoh, thank you, thank you, Edmond! Now you are exactly what I dreamt
you were,ГўВҖВ”the man I always loved. Oh, now I may say so!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the better,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңas that poor Edmond will
not have long to be loved by you. Death is about to return to the tomb,
the phantom to retire in darkness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you say, Edmond?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI say, since you command me, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, I must die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDie? and why so? Who talks of dying? Whence have you these ideas of
death?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not suppose that, publicly outraged in the face of a whole
theatre, in the presence of your friends and those of your
sonГўВҖВ”challenged by a boy who will glory in my forgiveness as if it were
a victoryГўВҖВ”you do not suppose that I can for one moment wish to live.
What I most loved after you, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, was myself, my dignity, and that
strength which rendered me superior to other men; that strength was my
life. With one word you have crushed it, and I die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the duel will not take place, Edmond, since you forgive?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt will take place,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, in a most solemn tone; ГўВҖВңbut
instead of your sonГўВҖВҷs blood to stain the ground, mine will flow.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs shrieked, and sprang towards Monte Cristo, but, suddenly
stopping, ГўВҖВңEdmond,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңthere is a God above us, since you live
and since I have seen you again; I trust to him from my heart. While
waiting his assistance I trust to your word; you have said that my son
should live, have you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, madame, he shall live,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, surprised that without
more emotion MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had accepted the heroic sacrifice he made for
her. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs extended her hand to the count.

ГўВҖВңEdmond,ГўВҖВқ said she, and her eyes were wet with tears while looking at
him to whom she spoke, ГўВҖВңhow noble it is of you, how great the action
you have just performed, how sublime to have taken pity on a poor woman
who appealed to you with every chance against her, Alas, I am grown old
with grief more than with years, and cannot now remind my Edmond by a
smile, or by a look, of that MercГғВ©dГғВЁs whom he once spent so many hours
in contemplating. Ah, believe me, Edmond, as I told you, I too have
suffered much; I repeat, it is melancholy to pass oneГўВҖВҷs life without
having one joy to recall, without preserving a single hope; but that
proves that all is not yet over. No, it is not finished; I feel it by
what remains in my heart. Oh, I repeat it, Edmond; what you have just
done is beautifulГўВҖВ”it is grand; it is sublime.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you say so now, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs?ГўВҖВ”then what would you say if you knew the
extent of the sacrifice I make to you? Suppose that the Supreme Being,
after having created the world and fertilized chaos, had paused in the
work to spare an angel the tears that might one day flow for mortal
sins from her immortal eyes; suppose that when everything was in
readiness and the moment had come for God to look upon his work and see
that it was goodГўВҖВ”suppose he had snuffed out the sun and tossed the
world back into eternal nightГўВҖВ”thenГўВҖВ”even then, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, you could not
imagine what I lose in sacrificing my life at this moment.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs looked at the count in a way which expressed at the same time
her astonishment, her admiration, and her gratitude. Monte Cristo
pressed his forehead on his burning hands, as if his brain could no
longer bear alone the weight of its thoughts.

ГўВҖВңEdmond,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңI have but one word more to say to you.ГўВҖВқ

The count smiled bitterly.

ГўВҖВңEdmond,ГўВҖВқ continued she, ГўВҖВңyou will see that if my face is pale, if my
eyes are dull, if my beauty is gone; if MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, in short, no longer
resembles her former self in her features, you will see that her heart
is still the same. Adieu, then, Edmond; I have nothing more to ask of
heavenГўВҖВ”I have seen you again, and have found you as noble and as great
as formerly you were. Adieu, Edmond, adieu, and thank you.ГўВҖВқ

But the count did not answer. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs opened the door of the study and
had disappeared before he had recovered from the painful and profound
reverie into which his thwarted vengeance had plunged him.

The clock of the Invalides struck one when the carriage which conveyed
Madame de Morcerf rolled away on the pavement of the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es,
and made Monte Cristo raise his head.

ГўВҖВңWhat a fool I was,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңnot to tear my heart out on the day when
I resolved to avenge myself!ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 90. The Meeting

After MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had left Monte Cristo, he fell into profound gloom.
Around him and within him the flight of thought seemed to have stopped;
his energetic mind slumbered, as the body does after extreme fatigue.

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ said he to himself, while the lamp and the wax lights were
nearly burnt out, and the servants were waiting impatiently in the
anteroom; ГўВҖВңwhat? this edifice which I have been so long preparing,
which I have reared with so much care and toil, is to be crushed by a
single touch, a word, a breath! Yes, this self, of whom I thought so
much, of whom I was so proud, who had appeared so worthless in the
dungeons of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, and whom I had succeeded in making so
great, will be but a lump of clay tomorrow. Alas, it is not the death
of the body I regret; for is not the destruction of the vital
principle, the repose to which everything is tending, to which every
unhappy being aspires,ГўВҖВ”is not this the repose of matter after which I
so long sighed, and which I was seeking to attain by the painful
process of starvation when Faria appeared in my dungeon? What is death
for me? One step farther into rest,ГўВҖВ”two, perhaps, into silence. No, it
is not existence, then, that I regret, but the ruin of projects so
slowly carried out, so laboriously framed. Providence is now opposed to
them, when I most thought it would be propitious. It is not GodГўВҖВҷs will
that they should be accomplished. This burden, almost as heavy as a
world, which I had raised, and I had thought to bear to the end, was
too great for my strength, and I was compelled to lay it down in the
middle of my career. Oh, shall I then, again become a fatalist, whom
fourteen years of despair and ten of hope had rendered a believer in
Providence?

ГўВҖВңAnd all thisГўВҖВ”all this, because my heart, which I thought dead, was
only sleeping; because it has awakened and has begun to beat again,
because I have yielded to the pain of the emotion excited in my breast
by a womanГўВҖВҷs voice.

ГўВҖВңYet,ГўВҖВқ continued the count, becoming each moment more absorbed in the
anticipation of the dreadful sacrifice for the morrow, which MercГғВ©dГғВЁs
had accepted, ГўВҖВңyet, it is impossible that so noble-minded a woman
should thus through selfishness consent to my death when I am in the
prime of life and strength; it is impossible that she can carry to such
a point maternal love, or rather delirium. There are virtues which
become crimes by exaggeration. No, she must have conceived some
pathetic scene; she will come and throw herself between us; and what
would be sublime here will there appear ridiculous.ГўВҖВқ

The blush of pride mounted to the countГўВҖВҷs forehead as this thought
passed through his mind.

ГўВҖВңRidiculous?ГўВҖВқ repeated he; ГўВҖВңand the ridicule will fall on me. I
ridiculous? No, I would rather die.ГўВҖВқ

By thus exaggerating to his own mind the anticipated ill-fortune of the
next day, to which he had condemned himself by promising MercГғВ©dГғВЁs to
spare her son, the count at last exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңFolly, folly, folly!ГўВҖВ”to carry generosity so far as to put myself up as
a mark for that young man to aim at. He will never believe that my
death was suicide; and yet it is important for the honor of my
memory,ГўВҖВ”and this surely is not vanity, but a justifiable pride,ГўВҖВ”it is
important the world should know that I have consented, by my free will,
to stop my arm, already raised to strike, and that with the arm which
has been so powerful against others I have struck myself. It must be;
it shall be.ГўВҖВқ

Seizing a pen, he drew a paper from a secret drawer in his desk, and
wrote at the bottom of the document (which was no other than his will,
made since his arrival in Paris) a sort of codicil, clearly explaining
the nature of his death.

ГўВҖВңI do this, Oh, my God,ГўВҖВқ said he, with his eyes raised to heaven, ГўВҖВңas
much for thy honor as for mine. I have during ten years considered
myself the agent of thy vengeance, and other wretches, like Morcerf,
Danglars, Villefort, even Morcerf himself, must not imagine that chance
has freed them from their enemy. Let them know, on the contrary, that
their punishment, which had been decreed by Providence, is only delayed
by my present determination, and although they escape it in this world,
it awaits them in another, and that they are only exchanging time for
eternity.ГўВҖВқ

While he was thus agitated by gloomy uncertainties,ГўВҖВ”wretched waking
dreams of grief,ГўВҖВ”the first rays of morning pierced his windows, and
shone upon the pale blue paper on which he had just inscribed his
justification of Providence.

It was just five oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning when a slight noise like a
stifled sigh reached his ear. He turned his head, looked around him,
and saw no one; but the sound was repeated distinctly enough to
convince him of its reality.

He arose, and quietly opening the door of the drawing-room, saw HaydГғВ©e,
who had fallen on a chair, with her arms hanging down and her beautiful
head thrown back. She had been standing at the door, to prevent his
going out without seeing her, until sleep, which the young cannot
resist, had overpowered her frame, wearied as she was with watching.
The noise of the door did not awaken her, and Monte Cristo gazed at her
with affectionate regret.

ГўВҖВңShe remembered that she had a son,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңand I forgot I had a
daughter.ГўВҖВқ Then, shaking his head sorrowfully, ГўВҖВңPoor HaydГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ said he;
ГўВҖВңshe wished to see me, to speak to me; she has feared or guessed
something. Oh, I cannot go without taking leave of her; I cannot die
without confiding her to someone.ГўВҖВқ

He quietly regained his seat, and wrote under the other lines:

ГўВҖВңI bequeath to Maximilian Morrel, captain of Spahis,ГўВҖВ”and son of my
former patron, Pierre Morrel, shipowner at Marseilles,ГўВҖВ”the sum of
twenty millions, a part of which may be offered to his sister Julie and
brother-in-law Emmanuel, if he does not fear this increase of fortune
may mar their happiness. These twenty millions are concealed in my
grotto at Monte Cristo, of which Bertuccio knows the secret. If his
heart is free, and he will marry HaydГғВ©e, the daughter of Ali Pasha of
Yanina, whom I have brought up with the love of a father, and who has
shown the love and tenderness of a daughter for me, he will thus
accomplish my last wish. This will has already constituted HaydГғВ©e
heiress of the rest of my fortune, consisting of lands, funds in
England, Austria, and Holland, furniture in my different palaces and
houses, and which without the twenty millions and the legacies to my
servants, may still amount to sixty millions.ГўВҖВқ


40241m



He was finishing the last line when a cry behind him made him start,
and the pen fell from his hand.

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdid you read it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, my lord,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңwhy are you writing thus at such an hour? Why
are you bequeathing all your fortune to me? Are you going to leave me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am going on a journey, dear child,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, with an
expression of infinite tenderness and melancholy; ГўВҖВңand if any
misfortune should happen to meГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

The count stopped.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ asked the young girl, with an authoritative tone the count had
never observed before, and which startled him.

ГўВҖВңWell, if any misfortune happen to me,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI wish
my daughter to be happy.ГўВҖВқ HaydГғВ©e smiled sorrowfully, and shook her
head.

ГўВҖВңDo you think of dying, my lord?ГўВҖВқ said she.

ГўВҖВңThe wise man, my child, has said, ГўВҖВҳIt is good to think of death.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, if you die,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңbequeath your fortune to others, for if
you die I shall require nothing;ГўВҖВқ and, taking the paper, she tore it in
four pieces, and threw it into the middle of the room. Then, the effort
having exhausted her strength, she fell, not asleep this time, but
fainting on the floor.

The count leaned over her and raised her in his arms; and seeing that
sweet pale face, those lovely eyes closed, that beautiful form
motionless and to all appearance lifeless, the idea occurred to him for
the first time, that perhaps she loved him otherwise than as a daughter
loves a father.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ murmured he, with intense suffering, ГўВҖВңI might, then, have been
happy yet.ГўВҖВқ

Then he carried HaydГғВ©e to her room, resigned her to the care of her
attendants, and returning to his study, which he shut quickly this
time, he again copied the destroyed will. As he was finishing, the
sound of a cabriolet entering the yard was heard. Monte Cristo
approached the window, and saw Maximilian and Emmanuel alight. ГўВҖВңGood,ГўВҖВқ
said he; ГўВҖВңit was time,ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”and he sealed his will with three seals.

A moment afterwards he heard a noise in the drawing-room, and went to
open the door himself. Morrel was there; he had come twenty minutes
before the time appointed.

ГўВҖВңI am perhaps come too soon, count,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңbut I frankly
acknowledge that I have not closed my eyes all night, nor has anyone in
my house. I need to see you strong in your courageous assurance, to
recover myself.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo could not resist this proof of affection; he not only
extended his hand to the young man, but flew to him with open arms.

ГўВҖВңMorrel,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңit is a happy day for me, to feel that I am beloved
by such a man as you. Good-morning, Emmanuel; you will come with me
then, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you doubt it?ГўВҖВқ said the young captain.

ГўВҖВңBut if I were wrongГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI watched you during the whole scene of that challenge yesterday; I
have been thinking of your firmness all night, and I said to myself
that justice must be on your side, or manГўВҖВҷs countenance is no longer to
be relied on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, Morrel, Albert is your friend?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSimply an acquaintance, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou met on the same day you first saw me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, that is true; but I should not have recollected it if you had not
reminded me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, Morrel.ГўВҖВқ Then ringing the bell once, ГўВҖВңLook.ГўВҖВқ said he to
Ali, who came immediately, ГўВҖВңtake that to my solicitor. It is my will,
Morrel. When I am dead, you will go and examine it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңyou dead?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; must I not be prepared for everything, dear friend? But what did
you do yesterday after you left me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI went to TortoniГўВҖВҷs, where, as I expected, I found Beauchamp and
ChГғВўteau-Renaud. I own I was seeking them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, when all was arranged?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen, count; the affair is serious and unavoidable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you doubt it!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; the offence was public, and everyone is already talking of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I hoped to get an exchange of arms,ГўВҖВ”to substitute the sword for
the pistol; the pistol is blind.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you succeeded?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo quickly, with an imperceptible
gleam of hope.

ГўВҖВңNo; for your skill with the sword is so well known.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh?ГўВҖВ”who has betrayed me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe skilful swordsman whom you have conquered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you failed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey positively refused.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMorrel,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңhave you ever seen me fire a pistol?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, we have time; look.ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo took the pistols he held in
his hand when MercГғВ©dГғВЁs entered, and fixing an ace of clubs against the
iron plate, with four shots he successively shot off the four sides of
the club. At each shot Morrel turned pale. He examined the bullets with
which Monte Cristo performed this dexterous feat, and saw that they
were no larger than buckshot.

ГўВҖВңIt is astonishing,ГўВҖВқ said he. ГўВҖВңLook, Emmanuel.ГўВҖВқ Then turning towards
Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңin the name of all that is dear to
you, I entreat you not to kill Albert!ГўВҖВ”the unhappy youth has a mother.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңand I have none.ГўВҖВқ These words were
uttered in a tone which made Morrel shudder.

ГўВҖВңYou are the offended party, count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless; what does that imply?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat you will fire first.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI fire first?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I obtained, or rather claimed that; we had conceded enough for
them to yield us that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd at what distance?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwenty paces.ГўВҖВқ A smile of terrible import passed over the countГўВҖВҷs
lips.

ГўВҖВңMorrel,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdo not forget what you have just seen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe only chance for AlbertГўВҖВҷs safety, then, will arise from your
emotion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI suffer from emotion?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңOr from your generosity, my friend; to so good a marksman as you are,
I may say what would appear absurd to another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBreak his armГўВҖВ”wound himГўВҖВ”but do not kill him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will tell you, Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthat I do not need
entreating to spare the life of M. de Morcerf; he shall be so well
spared, that he will return quietly with his two friends, while IГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat will be another thing; I shall be brought home.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ cried Maximilian, quite unable to restrain his feelings.

ГўВҖВңAs I told you, my dear Morrel, M. de Morcerf will kill me.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel looked at him in utter amazement. ГўВҖВңBut what has happened, then,
since last evening, count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe same thing that happened to Brutus the night before the battle of
Philippi; I have seen a ghost.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd that ghostГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTold me, Morrel, that I had lived long enough.ГўВҖВқ

Maximilian and Emmanuel looked at each other. Monte Cristo drew out his
watch. ГўВҖВңLet us go,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңit is five minutes past seven, and the
appointment was for eight oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

A carriage was in readiness at the door. Monte Cristo stepped into it
with his two friends. He had stopped a moment in the passage to listen
at a door, and Maximilian and Emmanuel, who had considerately passed
forward a few steps, thought they heard him answer by a sigh to a sob
from within. As the clock struck eight they drove up to the place of
meeting.

ГўВҖВңWe are first,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, looking out of the window.

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Baptistin, who had followed his master with
indescribable terror, ГўВҖВңbut I think I see a carriage down there under
the trees.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo sprang lightly from the carriage, and offered his hand to
assist Emmanuel and Maximilian. The latter retained the countГўВҖВҷs hand
between his.

ГўВҖВңI like,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңto feel a hand like this, when its owner relies on
the goodness of his cause.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt seems to me,ГўВҖВқ said Emmanuel, ГўВҖВңthat I see two young men down there,
who are evidently, waiting.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo drew Morrel a step or two behind his brother-in-law.

ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңare your affections disengaged?ГўВҖВқ Morrel looked
at Monte Cristo with astonishment. ГўВҖВңI do not seek your confidence, my
dear friend. I only ask you a simple question; answer it;ГўВҖВ”that is all I
require.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI love a young girl, count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you love her much?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMore than my life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnother hope defeated!ГўВҖВқ said the count. Then, with a sigh, ГўВҖВңPoor
HaydГғВ©e!ГўВҖВқ murmured he.

ГўВҖВңTo tell the truth, count, if I knew less of you, I should think that
you were less brave than you are.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I sigh when thinking of someone I am leaving? Come, Morrel, it
is not like a soldier to be so bad a judge of courage. Do I regret
life? What is it to me, who have passed twenty years between life and
death? Moreover, do not alarm yourself, Morrel; this weakness, if it is
such, is betrayed to you alone. I know the world is a drawing-room,
from which we must retire politely and honestly; that is, with a bow,
and our debts of honor paid.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is to the purpose. Have you brought your arms?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВ”what for? I hope these gentlemen have theirs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will inquire,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңDo; but make no treatyГўВҖВ”you understand me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou need not fear.ГўВҖВқ Morrel advanced towards Beauchamp and
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, who, seeing his intention, came to meet him. The three
young men bowed to each other courteously, if not affably.

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңbut I do not see M. de Morcerf.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe sent us word this morning,ГўВҖВқ replied ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңthat he would
meet us on the ground.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. Beauchamp pulled out his watch.

ГўВҖВңIt is only five minutes past eight,ГўВҖВқ said he to Morrel; ГўВҖВңthere is not
much time lost yet.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I made no allusion of that kind,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel.

ГўВҖВңThere is a carriage coming,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud. It advanced rapidly
along one of the avenues leading towards the open space where they were
assembled.

ГўВҖВңYou are doubtless provided with pistols, gentlemen? M. de Monte Cristo
yields his right of using his.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe had anticipated this kindness on the part of the count,ГўВҖВқ said
Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңand I have brought some weapons which I bought eight or ten
days since, thinking to want them on a similar occasion. They are quite
new, and have not yet been used. Will you examine them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, M. Beauchamp, if you assure me that M. de Morcerf does not know
these pistols, you may readily believe that your word will be quite
sufficient.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңit is not Morcerf coming in that
carriage;ГўВҖВ”faith, it is Franz and Debray!ГўВҖВқ

The two young men he announced were indeed approaching. ГўВҖВңWhat chance
brings you here, gentlemen?ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, shaking hands with
each of them.

ГўВҖВңBecause,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңAlbert sent this morning to request us to
come.ГўВҖВқ Beauchamp and ChГғВўteau-Renaud exchanged looks of astonishment. ГўВҖВңI
think I understand his reason,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYesterday afternoon I received a letter from M. de Morcerf, begging me
to attend the Opera.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I,ГўВҖВқ said Debray.

ГўВҖВңAnd I also,ГўВҖВқ said Franz.

ГўВҖВңAnd we, too,ГўВҖВқ added Beauchamp and ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңHaving wished you all to witness the challenge, he now wishes you to
be present at the combat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly so,ГўВҖВқ said the young men; ГўВҖВңyou have probably guessed right.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, after all these arrangements, he does not come himself,ГўВҖВқ said
ChГғВўteau-Renaud. ГўВҖВңAlbert is ten minutes after time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere he comes,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңon horseback, at full gallop,
followed by a servant.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow imprudent,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңto come on horseback to fight a
duel with pistols, after all the instructions I had given him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd besides,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңwith a collar above his cravat, an open
coat and white waistcoat! Why has he not painted a spot upon his
heart?ГўВҖВ”it would have been more simple.ГўВҖВқ

Meanwhile Albert had arrived within ten paces of the group formed by
the five young men. He jumped from his horse, threw the bridle on his
servantГўВҖВҷs arms, and joined them. He was pale, and his eyes were red and
swollen; it was evident that he had not slept. A shade of melancholy
gravity overspread his countenance, which was not natural to him.

ГўВҖВңI thank you, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңfor having complied with my
request; I feel extremely grateful for this mark of friendship.ГўВҖВқ Morrel
had stepped back as Morcerf approached, and remained at a short
distance. ГўВҖВңAnd to you also, M. Morrel, my thanks are due. Come, there
cannot be too many.ГўВҖВқ

40248m



ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңyou are not perhaps aware that I am M. de
Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs friend?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was not sure, but I thought it might be so. So much the better; the
more honorable men there are here the better I shall be satisfied.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңM. Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңwill you apprise the Count of Monte
Cristo that M. de Morcerf is arrived, and we are at his disposal?ГўВҖВқ

Morrel was preparing to fulfil his commission. Beauchamp had meanwhile
drawn the box of pistols from the carriage.

ГўВҖВңStop, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңI have two words to say to the Count
of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn private?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңNo, sir; before all who are here.ГўВҖВқ

AlbertГўВҖВҷs witnesses looked at each other. Franz and Debray exchanged
some words in a whisper, and Morrel, rejoiced at this unexpected
incident, went to fetch the count, who was walking in a retired path
with Emmanuel.

ГўВҖВңWhat does he want with me?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңI do not know, but he wishes to speak to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI trust he is not going to tempt me by some
fresh insult!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not think that such is his intention,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

The count advanced, accompanied by Maximilian and Emmanuel. His calm
and serene look formed a singular contrast to AlbertГўВҖВҷs grief-stricken
face, who approached also, followed by the other four young men.

When at three paces distant from each other, Albert and the count
stopped.

ГўВҖВңApproach, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңI wish you not to lose one word of
what I am about to have the honor of saying to the Count of Monte
Cristo, for it must be repeated by you to all who will listen to it,
strange as it may appear to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProceed, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, at first with a tremulous voice, but which
gradually became firmer, ГўВҖВңI reproached you with exposing the conduct of
M. de Morcerf in Epirus, for guilty as I knew he was, I thought you had
no right to punish him; but I have since learned that you had that
right. It is not Fernand MondegoГўВҖВҷs treachery towards Ali Pasha which
induces me so readily to excuse you, but the treachery of the fisherman
Fernand towards you, and the almost unheard-of miseries which were its
consequences; and I say, and proclaim it publicly, that you were
justified in revenging yourself on my father, and I, his son, thank you
for not using greater severity.ГўВҖВқ

Had a thunderbolt fallen in the midst of the spectators of this
unexpected scene, it would not have surprised them more than did
AlbertГўВҖВҷs declaration. As for Monte Cristo, his eyes slowly rose towards
heaven with an expression of infinite gratitude. He could not
understand how AlbertГўВҖВҷs fiery nature, of which he had seen so much
among the Roman bandits, had suddenly stooped to this humiliation. He
recognized the influence of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, and saw why her noble heart had
not opposed the sacrifice she knew beforehand would be useless.

ГўВҖВңNow, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, ГўВҖВңif you think my apology sufficient, pray give
me your hand. Next to the merit of infallibility which you appear to
possess, I rank that of candidly acknowledging a fault. But this
confession concerns me only. I acted well as a man, but you have acted
better than man. An angel alone could have saved one of us from
deathГўВҖВ”that angel came from heaven, if not to make us friends (which,
alas, fatality renders impossible), at least to make us esteem each
other.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo, with moistened eye, heaving breast, and lips half open,
extended to Albert a hand which the latter pressed with a sentiment
resembling respectful fear.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңM. de Monte Cristo receives my apology. I had
acted hastily towards him. Hasty actions are generally bad ones. Now my
fault is repaired. I hope the world will not call me cowardly for
acting as my conscience dictated. But if anyone should entertain a
false opinion of me,ГўВҖВқ added he, drawing himself up as if he would
challenge both friends and enemies, ГўВҖВңI shall endeavor to correct his
mistake.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat happened during the night?ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp of ChГғВўteau-Renaud;
ГўВҖВңwe appear to make a very sorry figure here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn truth, what Albert has just done is either very despicable or very
noble,ГўВҖВқ replied the baron.

ГўВҖВңWhat can it mean?ГўВҖВқ said Debray to Franz.

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo acts dishonorably to M. de Morcerf, and is
justified by his son! Had I ten Yaninas in my family, I should only
consider myself the more bound to fight ten times.ГўВҖВқ

As for Monte Cristo, his head was bent down, his arms were powerless.
Bowing under the weight of twenty-four yearsГўВҖВҷ reminiscences, he thought
not of Albert, of Beauchamp, of ChГғВўteau-Renaud, or of any of that
group; but he thought of that courageous woman who had come to plead
for her sonГўВҖВҷs life, to whom he had offered his, and who had now saved
it by the revelation of a dreadful family secret, capable of destroying
forever in that young manГўВҖВҷs heart every feeling of filial piety.

ГўВҖВңProvidence still,ГўВҖВқ murmured he; ГўВҖВңnow only am I fully convinced of
being the emissary of God!ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 91. Mother and Son

The Count of Monte Cristo bowed to the five young men with a melancholy
and dignified smile, and got into his carriage with Maximilian and
Emmanuel. Albert, Beauchamp, and ChГғВўteau-Renaud remained alone. Albert
looked at his two friends, not timidly, but in a way that appeared to
ask their opinion of what he had just done.

ГўВҖВңIndeed, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp first, who had either the most
feeling or the least dissimulation, ГўВҖВңallow me to congratulate you; this
is a very unhoped-for conclusion of a very disagreeable affair.ГўВҖВқ

Albert remained silent and wrapped in thought. ChГғВўteau-Renaud contented
himself with tapping his boot with his flexible cane.

ГўВҖВңAre we not going?ГўВҖВқ said he, after this embarrassing silence.

ГўВҖВңWhen you please,ГўВҖВқ replied Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңallow me only to compliment M.
de Morcerf, who has given proof today of rare chivalric generosity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңIt is magnificent,ГўВҖВқ continued Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңto be able to exercise so
much self-control!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAssuredly; as for me, I should have been incapable of it,ГўВҖВқ said
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, with most significant coolness.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ interrupted Albert, ГўВҖВңI think you did not understand that
something very serious had passed between M. de Monte Cristo and
myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPossibly, possibly,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp immediately; ГўВҖВңbut every simpleton
would not be able to understand your heroism, and sooner or later you
will find yourself compelled to explain it to them more energetically
than would be convenient to your bodily health and the duration of your
life. May I give you a friendly counsel? Set out for Naples, the Hague,
or St. PetersburgГўВҖВ”calm countries, where the point of honor is better
understood than among our hot-headed Parisians. Seek quietude and
oblivion, so that you may return peaceably to France after a few years.
Am I not right, M. de ChГғВўteau-Renaud?ГўВҖВқ

40252m



ГўВҖВңThat is quite my opinion,ГўВҖВқ said the gentleman; ГўВҖВңnothing induces
serious duels so much as a duel forsworn.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert, with a smile of indifference;
ГўВҖВңI shall follow your adviceГўВҖВ”not because you give it, but because I had
before intended to quit France. I thank you equally for the service you
have rendered me in being my seconds. It is deeply engraved on my
heart, and, after what you have just said, I remember that only.ГўВҖВқ

ChГғВўteau-Renaud and Beauchamp looked at each other; the impression was
the same on both of them, and the tone in which Morcerf had just
expressed his thanks was so determined that the position would have
become embarrassing for all if the conversation had continued.

ГўВҖВңGood-bye, Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp suddenly, carelessly extending his
hand to the young man. The latter did not appear to arouse from his
lethargy; in fact, he did not notice the offered hand.

ГўВҖВңGood-bye,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud in his turn, keeping his little cane in
his left hand, and saluting with his right.

AlbertГўВҖВҷs lips scarcely whispered ГўВҖВңGood-bye,ГўВҖВқ but his look was more
explicit; it expressed a whole poem of restrained anger, proud disdain,
and generous indignation. He preserved his melancholy and motionless
position for some time after his two friends had regained their
carriage; then suddenly unfastening his horse from the little tree to
which his servant had tied it, he mounted and galloped off in the
direction of Paris.

In a quarter of an hour he was entering the house in the Rue du Helder.
As he alighted, he thought he saw his fatherГўВҖВҷs pale face behind the
curtain of the countГўВҖВҷs bedroom. Albert turned away his head with a
sigh, and went to his own apartments. He cast one lingering look on all
the luxuries which had rendered life so easy and so happy since his
infancy; he looked at the pictures, whose faces seemed to smile, and
the landscapes, which appeared painted in brighter colors. Then he took
away his motherГўВҖВҷs portrait, with its oaken frame, leaving the gilt
frame from which he took it black and empty. Then he arranged all his
beautiful Turkish arms, his fine English guns, his Japanese china, his
cups mounted in silver, his artistic bronzes by FeuchГғВЁres or Barye;
examined the cupboards, and placed the key in each; threw into a drawer
of his secretaire, which he left open, all the pocket-money he had
about him, and with it the thousand fancy jewels from his vases and his
jewel-boxes; then he made an exact inventory of everything, and placed
it in the most conspicuous part of the table, after putting aside the
books and papers which had collected there.

At the beginning of this work, his servant, notwithstanding orders to
the contrary, came to his room.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you want?ГўВҖВқ asked he, with a more sorrowful than angry tone.

ГўВҖВңPardon me, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the valet; ГўВҖВңyou had forbidden me to disturb
you, but the Count of Morcerf has called me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell!ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңI did not like to go to him without first seeing you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause the count is doubtless aware that I accompanied you to the
meeting this morning.ГўВҖВқ

40254m



ГўВҖВңIt is probable,ГўВҖВқ said Albert.

ГўВҖВңAnd since he has sent for me, it is doubtless to question me on what
happened there. What must I answer?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe truth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I shall say the duel did not take place?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will say I apologized to the Count of Monte Cristo. Go.ГўВҖВқ

The valet bowed and retired, and Albert returned to his inventory. As
he was finishing this work, the sound of horses prancing in the yard,
and the wheels of a carriage shaking his window, attracted his
attention. He approached the window, and saw his father get into it,
and drive away. The door was scarcely closed when Albert bent his steps
to his motherГўВҖВҷs room; and, no one being there to announce him, he
advanced to her bedchamber, and distressed by what he saw and guessed,
stopped for one moment at the door.

As if the same idea had animated these two beings, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs was doing
the same in her apartments that he had just done in his. Everything was
in order,ГўВҖВ”laces, dresses, jewels, linen, money, all were arranged in
the drawers, and the countess was carefully collecting the keys. Albert
saw all these preparations and understood them, and exclaiming, ГўВҖВңMy
mother!ГўВҖВқ he threw his arms around her neck.

The artist who could have depicted the expression of these two
countenances would certainly have made of them a beautiful picture. All
these proofs of an energetic resolution, which Albert did not fear on
his own account, alarmed him for his mother. ГўВҖВңWhat are you doing?ГўВҖВқ
asked he.

ГўВҖВңWhat were you doing?ГўВҖВқ replied she.

ГўВҖВңOh, my mother!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert, so overcome he could scarcely speak;
ГўВҖВңit is not the same with you and meГўВҖВ”you cannot have made the same
resolution I have, for I have come to warn you that I bid adieu to your
house, andГўВҖВ”and to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI also,ГўВҖВқ replied MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңam going, and I acknowledge I had depended
on your accompanying me; have I deceived myself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMother,ГўВҖВқ said Albert with firmness. ГўВҖВңI cannot make you share the fate
I have planned for myself. I must live henceforth without rank and
fortune, and to begin this hard apprenticeship I must borrow from a
friend the loaf I shall eat until I have earned one. So, my dear
mother, I am going at once to ask Franz to lend me the small sum I
shall require to supply my present wants.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou, my poor child, suffer poverty and hunger? Oh, do not say so; it
will break my resolutions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut not mine, mother,ГўВҖВқ replied Albert. ГўВҖВңI am young and strong; I
believe I am courageous, and since yesterday I have learned the power
of will. Alas, my dear mother, some have suffered so much, and yet
live, and have raised a new fortune on the ruin of all the promises of
happiness which heaven had made themГўВҖВ”on the fragments of all the hope
which God had given them! I have seen that, mother; I know that from
the gulf in which their enemies have plunged them they have risen with
so much vigor and glory that in their turn they have ruled their former
conquerors, and have punished them. No, mother; from this moment I have
done with the past, and accept nothing from itГўВҖВ”not even a name, because
you can understand that your son cannot bear the name of a man who
ought to blush for it before another.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlbert, my child,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңif I had a stronger heart, that is
the counsel I would have given you; your conscience has spoken when my
voice became too weak; listen to its dictates. You had friends, Albert;
break off their acquaintance. But do not despair; you have life before
you, my dear Albert, for you are yet scarcely twenty-two years old; and
as a pure heart like yours wants a spotless name, take my fatherГўВҖВҷsГўВҖВ”it
was Herrera. I am sure, my dear Albert, whatever may be your career,
you will soon render that name illustrious. Then, my son, return to the
world still more brilliant because of your former sorrows; and if I am
wrong, still let me cherish these hopes, for I have no future to look
forward to. For me the grave opens when I pass the threshold of this
house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will fulfil all your wishes, my dear mother,ГўВҖВқ said the young man.
ГўВҖВңYes, I share your hopes; the anger of Heaven will not pursue us, since
you are pure and I am innocent. But, since our resolution is formed,
let us act promptly. M. de Morcerf went out about half an hour ago; the
opportunity is favorable to avoid an explanation.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am ready, my son,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

Albert ran to fetch a carriage. He recollected that there was a small
furnished house to let in the Rue des Saints-PГғВЁres, where his mother
would find a humble but decent lodging, and thither he intended
conducting the countess. As the carriage stopped at the door, and
Albert was alighting, a man approached and gave him a letter.

Albert recognized the bearer. ГўВҖВңFrom the count,ГўВҖВқ said Bertuccio. Albert
took the letter, opened, and read it, then looked round for Bertuccio,
but he was gone.

He returned to MercГғВ©dГғВЁs with tears in his eyes and heaving breast, and
without uttering a word he gave her the letter. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs read:

ГўВҖВңAlbert,ГўВҖВ”While showing you that I have discovered your plans, I hope
also to convince you of my delicacy. You are free, you leave the
countГўВҖВҷs house, and you take your mother to your home; but reflect,
Albert, you owe her more than your poor noble heart can pay her. Keep
the struggle for yourself, bear all the suffering, but spare her the
trial of poverty which must accompany your first efforts; for she
deserves not even the shadow of the misfortune which has this day
fallen on her, and Providence is not willing that the innocent should
suffer for the guilty. I know you are going to leave the Rue du Helder
without taking anything with you. Do not seek to know how I discovered
it; I know itГўВҖВ”that is sufficient.

ГўВҖВңNow, listen, Albert. Twenty-four years ago I returned, proud and
joyful, to my country. I had a betrothed, Albert, a lovely girl whom I
adored, and I was bringing to my betrothed a hundred and fifty louis,
painfully amassed by ceaseless toil. This money was for her; I destined
it for her, and, knowing the treachery of the sea I buried our treasure
in the little garden of the house my father lived in at Marseilles, on
the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan. Your mother, Albert, knows that poor house well.
A short time since I passed through Marseilles, and went to see the old
place, which revived so many painful recollections; and in the evening
I took a spade and dug in the corner of the garden where I had
concealed my treasure. The iron box was thereГўВҖВ”no one had touched
itГўВҖВ”under a beautiful fig-tree my father had planted the day I was born,
which overshadowed the spot. Well, Albert, this money, which was
formerly designed to promote the comfort and tranquillity of the woman
I adored, may now, through strange and painful circumstances, be
devoted to the same purpose.

ГўВҖВңOh, feel for me, who could offer millions to that poor woman, but who
return her only the piece of black bread forgotten under my poor roof
since the day I was torn from her I loved. You are a generous man,
Albert, but perhaps you may be blinded by pride or resentment; if you
refuse me, if you ask another for what I have a right to offer you, I
will say it is ungenerous of you to refuse the life of your mother at
the hands of a man whose father was allowed by your father to die in
all the horrors of poverty and despair.ГўВҖВқ

Albert stood pale and motionless to hear what his mother would decide
after she had finished reading this letter. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs turned her eyes
with an ineffable look towards heaven.

ГўВҖВңI accept it,ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңhe has a right to pay the dowry, which I
shall take with me to some convent!ГўВҖВқ

Putting the letter in her bosom, she took her sonГўВҖВҷs arm, and with a
firmer step than she even herself expected she went downstairs.



 Chapter 92. The Suicide

Meanwhile Monte Cristo had also returned to town with Emmanuel and
Maximilian. Their return was cheerful. Emmanuel did not conceal his joy
at the peaceful termination of the affair, and was loud in his
expressions of delight. Morrel, in a corner of the carriage, allowed
his brother-in-lawГўВҖВҷs gayety to expend itself in words, while he felt
equal inward joy, which, however, betrayed itself only in his
countenance.

At the BarriГғВЁre du TrГғВҙne they met Bertuccio, who was waiting there,
motionless as a sentinel at his post. Monte Cristo put his head out of
the window, exchanged a few words with him in a low tone, and the
steward disappeared.

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said Emmanuel, when they were at the end of the Place Royale,
ГўВҖВңput me down at my door, that my wife may not have a single moment of
needless anxiety on my account or yours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf it were not ridiculous to make a display of our triumph, said
Morrel, I would invite the count to our house; besides that, he
doubtless has some trembling heart to comfort. So we will take leave of
our friend, and let him hasten home.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStop a moment,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңdo not let me lose both my
companions. Return, Emmanuel, to your charming wife, and present my
best compliments to her; and do you, Morrel, accompany me to the
Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWillingly,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian; ГўВҖВңparticularly as I have business in that
quarter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall we wait breakfast for you?ГўВҖВқ asked Emmanuel.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied the young man. The door was closed, and the carriage
proceeded. ГўВҖВңSee what good fortune I brought you!ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, when he
was alone with the count. ГўВҖВңHave you not thought so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңfor that reason I wished to keep you near
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is miraculous!ГўВҖВқ continued Morrel, answering his own thoughts.

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWhat has just happened.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the Count, ГўВҖВңyou are rightГўВҖВ”it is miraculous.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor Albert is brave,ГўВҖВқ resumed Morrel.

ГўВҖВңVery brave,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI have seen him sleep with a sword
suspended over his head.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I know he has fought two duels,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. ГўВҖВңHow can you
reconcile that with his conduct this morning?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAll owing to your influence,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, smiling.

ГўВҖВңIt is well for Albert he is not in the army,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn apology on the ground!ГўВҖВқ said the young captain, shaking his head.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said the count mildly, ГўВҖВңdo not entertain the prejudices of
ordinary men, Morrel! Acknowledge, that if Albert is brave, he cannot
be a coward; he must then have had some reason for acting as he did
this morning, and confess that his conduct is more heroic than
otherwise.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless, doubtless,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңbut I shall say, like the
Spaniard, ГўВҖВҳHe has not been so brave today as he was yesterday.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will breakfast with me, will you not, Morrel?ГўВҖВқ said the count, to
turn the conversation.

ГўВҖВңNo; I must leave you at ten oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour engagement was for breakfast, then?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

Morrel smiled, and shook his head.

ГўВҖВңStill you must breakfast somewhere.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut if I am not hungry?ГўВҖВқ said the young man.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI only know two things which destroy the
appetite,ГўВҖВ”griefГўВҖВ”and as I am happy to see you very cheerful, it is not
thatГўВҖВ”and love. Now after what you told me this morning of your heart, I
may believeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, count,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel gayly, ГўВҖВңI will not dispute it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you will not make me your confidant, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ said the count,
in a tone which showed how gladly he would have been admitted to the
secret.

ГўВҖВңI showed you this morning that I had a heart, did I not, count?ГўВҖВқ Monte
Cristo only answered by extending his hand to the young man. ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ
continued the latter, ГўВҖВңsince that heart is no longer with you in the
Bois de Vincennes, it is elsewhere, and I must go and find it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo,ГўВҖВқ said the count deliberately; ГўВҖВңgo, dear friend, but promise me if
you meet with any obstacle to remember that I have some power in this
world, that I am happy to use that power in the behalf of those I love,
and that I love you, Morrel.ГўВҖВқ

40260m



ГўВҖВңI will remember it,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңas selfish children
recollect their parents when they want their aid. When I need your
assistance, and the moment arrives, I will come to you, count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I rely upon your promise. Good-bye, then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood-bye, till we meet again.ГўВҖВқ

They had arrived in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es. Monte Cristo opened the
carriage-door, Morrel sprang out on the pavement, Bertuccio was waiting
on the steps. Morrel disappeared down the Avenue de Marigny, and Monte
Cristo hastened to join Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ asked he.

ГўВҖВңShe is going to leave her house,ГўВҖВқ said the steward.

ГўВҖВңAnd her son?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFlorentin, his valet, thinks he is going to do the same.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome this way.ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo took Bertuccio into his study, wrote the
letter we have seen, and gave it to the steward. ГўВҖВңGo,ГўВҖВқ said he quickly.
ГўВҖВңBut first, let HaydГғВ©e be informed that I have returned.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere I am,ГўВҖВқ said the young girl, who at the sound of the carriage had
run downstairs and whose face was radiant with joy at seeing the count
return safely. Bertuccio left. Every transport of a daughter finding a
father, all the delight of a mistress seeing an adored lover, were felt
by HaydГғВ©e during the first moments of this meeting, which she had so
eagerly expected. Doubtless, although less evident, Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs joy
was not less intense. Joy to hearts which have suffered long is like
the dew on the ground after a long drought; both the heart and the
ground absorb that beneficent moisture falling on them, and nothing is
outwardly apparent.

Monte Cristo was beginning to think, what he had not for a long time
dared to believe, that there were two MercГғВ©dГғВЁs in the world, and he
might yet be happy. His eye, elate with happiness, was reading eagerly
the tearful gaze of HaydГғВ©e, when suddenly the door opened. The count
knit his brow.

ГўВҖВңM. de Morcerf!ГўВҖВқ said Baptistin, as if that name sufficed for his
excuse. In fact, the countГўВҖВҷs face brightened.

ГўВҖВңWhich,ГўВҖВқ asked he, ГўВҖВңthe viscount or the count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed HaydГғВ©e, ГўВҖВңis it not yet over?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know not if it is finished, my beloved child,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo,
taking the young girlГўВҖВҷs hands; ГўВҖВңbut I do know you have nothing more to
fear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut it is the wretchedГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat man cannot injure me, HaydГғВ©e,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңit was his son
alone that there was cause to fear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what I have suffered,ГўВҖВқ said the young girl, ГўВҖВңyou shall never know,
my lord.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo smiled. ГўВҖВңBy my fatherГўВҖВҷs tomb,ГўВҖВқ said he, extending his hand
over the head of the young girl, ГўВҖВңI swear to you, HaydГғВ©e, that if any
misfortune happens, it will not be to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe you, my lord, as implicitly as if God had spoken to me,ГўВҖВқ
said the young girl, presenting her forehead to him. Monte Cristo
pressed on that pure beautiful forehead a kiss which made two hearts
throb at once, the one violently, the other secretly.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ murmured the count, ГўВҖВңshall I then be permitted to love again? Ask
M. de Morcerf into the drawing-room,ГўВҖВқ said he to Baptistin, while he
led the beautiful Greek girl to a private staircase.

We must explain this visit, which although expected by Monte Cristo, is
unexpected to our readers. While MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, as we have said, was making
a similar inventory of her property to AlbertГўВҖВҷs, while she was
arranging her jewels, shutting her drawers, collecting her keys, to
leave everything in perfect order, she did not perceive a pale and
sinister face at a glass door which threw light into the passage, from
which everything could be both seen and heard. He who was thus looking,
without being heard or seen, probably heard and saw all that passed in
Madame de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs apartments. From that glass door the pale-faced man
went to the countГўВҖВҷs bedroom and raised with a constricted hand the
curtain of a window overlooking the courtyard. He remained there ten
minutes, motionless and dumb, listening to the beating of his own
heart. For him those ten minutes were very long. It was then Albert,
returning from his meeting with the count, perceived his father
watching for his arrival behind a curtain, and turned aside. The
countГўВҖВҷs eye expanded; he knew Albert had insulted the count dreadfully,
and that in every country in the world such an insult would lead to a
deadly duel. Albert returned safelyГўВҖВ”then the count was revenged.

An indescribable ray of joy illumined that wretched countenance like
the last ray of the sun before it disappears behind the clouds which
bear the aspect, not of a downy couch, but of a tomb. But as we have
said, he waited in vain for his son to come to his apartment with the
account of his triumph. He easily understood why his son did not come
to see him before he went to avenge his fatherГўВҖВҷs honor; but when that
was done, why did not his son come and throw himself into his arms?

It was then, when the count could not see Albert, that he sent for his
servant, who he knew was authorized not to conceal anything from him.
Ten minutes afterwards, General Morcerf was seen on the steps in a
black coat with a military collar, black pantaloons, and black gloves.
He had apparently given previous orders, for as he reached the bottom
step his carriage came from the coach-house ready for him. The valet
threw into the carriage his military cloak, in which two swords were
wrapped, and, shutting the door, he took his seat by the side of the
coachman. The coachman stooped down for his orders.

ГўВҖВңTo the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es,ГўВҖВқ said the general; ГўВҖВңthe Count of Monte
CristoГўВҖВҷs. Hurry!ГўВҖВқ

The horses bounded beneath the whip; and in five minutes they stopped
before the countГўВҖВҷs door. M. de Morcerf opened the door himself, and as
the carriage rolled away he passed up the walk, rang, and entered the
open door with his servant.

A moment afterwards, Baptistin announced the Count of Morcerf to Monte
Cristo, and the latter, leading HaydГғВ©e aside, ordered that Morcerf be
asked into the drawing-room. The general was pacing the room the third
time when, in turning, he perceived Monte Cristo at the door.

ГўВҖВңAh, it is M. de Morcerf,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo quietly; ГўВҖВңI thought I had
not heard aright.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, it is I,ГўВҖВқ said the count, whom a frightful contraction of the
lips prevented from articulating freely.

ГўВҖВңMay I know the cause which procures me the pleasure of seeing M. de
Morcerf so early?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHad you not a meeting with my son this morning?ГўВҖВқ asked the general.

ГўВҖВңI had,ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

ГўВҖВңAnd I know my son had good reasons to wish to fight with you, and to
endeavor to kill you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir, he had very good ones; but you see that in spite of them he
has not killed me, and did not even fight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYet he considered you the cause of his fatherГўВҖВҷs dishonor, the cause of
the fearful ruin which has fallen on my house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is true, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with his dreadful calmness; ГўВҖВңa
secondary cause, but not the principal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoubtless you made, then, some apology or explanation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI explained nothing, and it is he who apologized to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut to what do you attribute this conduct?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the conviction, probably, that there was one more guilty than I.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who was that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat may be,ГўВҖВқ said the count, turning pale; ГўВҖВңbut you know the guilty
do not like to find themselves convicted.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it, and I expected this result.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou expected my son would be a coward?ГўВҖВқ cried the count.

ГўВҖВңM. Albert de Morcerf is no coward!ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңA man who holds a sword in his hand, and sees a mortal enemy within
reach of that sword, and does not fight, is a coward! Why is he not
here that I may tell him so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo coldly, ГўВҖВңI did not expect that you had come
here to relate to me your little family affairs. Go and tell M. Albert
that, and he may know what to answer you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, no,ГўВҖВқ said the general, smiling faintly, ГўВҖВңI did not come for
that purpose; you are right. I came to tell you that I also look upon
you as my enemy. I came to tell you that I hate you instinctively; that
it seems as if I had always known you, and always hated you; and, in
short, since the young people of the present day will not fight, it
remains for us to do so. Do you think so, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly. And when I told you I had foreseen the result, it is the
honor of your visit I alluded to.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the better. Are you prepared?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know that we shall fight till one of us is dead,ГўВҖВқ said the
general, whose teeth were clenched with rage.

40262m



ГўВҖВңUntil one of us dies,ГўВҖВқ repeated Monte Cristo, moving his head slightly
up and down.

ГўВҖВңLet us start, then; we need no witnesses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery true,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңit is unnecessary, we know each other
so well!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңwe know so little of each other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, with the same indomitable coolness; ГўВҖВңlet
us see. Are you not the soldier Fernand who deserted on the eve of the
battle of Waterloo? Are you not the Lieutenant Fernand who served as
guide and spy to the French army in Spain? Are you not the Captain
Fernand who betrayed, sold, and murdered his benefactor, Ali? And have
not all these Fernands, united, made Lieutenant-General, the Count of
Morcerf, peer of France?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried the general, as if branded with a hot iron, ГўВҖВңwretch,ГўВҖВ”to
reproach me with my shame when about, perhaps, to kill me! No, I did
not say I was a stranger to you. I know well, demon, that you have
penetrated into the darkness of the past, and that you have read, by
the light of what torch I know not, every page of my life; but perhaps
I may be more honorable in my shame than you under your pompous
coverings. NoГўВҖВ”no, I am aware you know me; but I know you only as an
adventurer sewn up in gold and jewellery. You call yourself, in Paris,
the Count of Monte Cristo; in Italy, Sinbad the Sailor; in Malta, I
forget what. But it is your real name I want to know, in the midst of
your hundred names, that I may pronounce it when we meet to fight, at
the moment when I plunge my sword through your heart.ГўВҖВқ

The Count of Monte Cristo turned dreadfully pale; his eye seemed to
burn with a devouring fire. He leaped towards a dressing-room near his
bedroom, and in less than a moment, tearing off his cravat, his coat
and waistcoat, he put on a sailorГўВҖВҷs jacket and hat, from beneath which
rolled his long black hair. He returned thus, formidable and
implacable, advancing with his arms crossed on his breast, towards the
general, who could not understand why he had disappeared, but who on
seeing him again, and feeling his teeth chatter and his legs sink under
him, drew back, and only stopped when he found a table to support his
clenched hand.

ГўВҖВңFernand,ГўВҖВқ cried he, ГўВҖВңof my hundred names I need only tell you one, to
overwhelm you! But you guess it now, do you not?ГўВҖВ”or, rather, you
remember it? For, notwithstanding all my sorrows and my tortures, I
show you today a face which the happiness of revenge makes young
againГўВҖВ”a face you must often have seen in your dreams since your
marriage with MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, my betrothed!ГўВҖВқ

40268m



The general, with his head thrown back, hands extended, gaze fixed,
looked silently at this dreadful apparition; then seeking the wall to
support him, he glided along close to it until he reached the door,
through which he went out backwards, uttering this single mournful,
lamentable, distressing cry:

ГўВҖВңEdmond DantГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ

Then, with sighs which were unlike any human sound, he dragged himself
to the door, reeled across the courtyard, and falling into the arms of
his valet, he said in a voice scarcely intelligible,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңHome, home.ГўВҖВқ

The fresh air and the shame he felt at having exposed himself before
his servants, partly recalled his senses, but the ride was short, and
as he drew near his house all his wretchedness revived. He stopped at a
short distance from the house and alighted. The door was wide open, a
hackney-coach was standing in the middle of the yardГўВҖВ”a strange sight
before so noble a mansion; the count looked at it with terror, but
without daring to inquire its meaning, he rushed towards his apartment.

Two persons were coming down the stairs; he had only time to creep into
an alcove to avoid them. It was MercГғВ©dГғВЁs leaning on her sonГўВҖВҷs arm and
leaving the house. They passed close by the unhappy being, who,
concealed behind the damask curtain, almost felt MercГғВ©dГғВЁs dress brush
past him, and his sonГўВҖВҷs warm breath, pronouncing these words:

ГўВҖВңCourage, mother! Come, this is no longer our home!ГўВҖВқ

The words died away, the steps were lost in the distance. The general
drew himself up, clinging to the curtain; he uttered the most dreadful
sob which ever escaped from the bosom of a father abandoned at the same
time by his wife and son. He soon heard the clatter of the iron step of
the hackney-coach, then the coachmanГўВҖВҷs voice, and then the rolling of
the heavy vehicle shook the windows. He darted to his bedroom to see
once more all he had loved in the world; but the hackney-coach drove on
and the head of neither MercГғВ©dГғВЁs nor her son appeared at the window to
take a last look at the house or the deserted father and husband.

And at the very moment when the wheels of that coach crossed the
gateway a report was heard, and a thick smoke escaped through one of
the panes of the window, which was broken by the explosion.

40270m




 Chapter 93. Valentine

We may easily conceive where MorrelГўВҖВҷs appointment was. On leaving Monte
Cristo he walked slowly towards VillefortГўВҖВҷs; we say slowly, for Morrel
had more than half an hour to spare to go five hundred steps, but he
had hastened to take leave of Monte Cristo because he wished to be
alone with his thoughts. He knew his time wellГўВҖВ”the hour when Valentine
was giving Noirtier his breakfast, and was sure not to be disturbed in
the performance of this pious duty. Noirtier and Valentine had given
him leave to go twice a week, and he was now availing himself of that
permission.

He arrived; Valentine was expecting him. Uneasy and almost crazed, she
seized his hand and led him to her grandfather. This uneasiness,
amounting almost to frenzy, arose from the report MorcerfГўВҖВҷs adventure
had made in the world, for the affair at the Opera was generally known.
No one at VillefortГўВҖВҷs doubted that a duel would ensue from it.
Valentine, with her womanГўВҖВҷs instinct, guessed that Morrel would be
Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs second, and from the young manГўВҖВҷs well-known courage and
his great affection for the count, she feared that he would not content
himself with the passive part assigned to him. We may easily understand
how eagerly the particulars were asked for, given, and received; and
Morrel could read an indescribable joy in the eyes of his beloved, when
she knew that the termination of this affair was as happy as it was
unexpected.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, motioning to Morrel to sit down near her
grandfather, while she took her seat on his footstool,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңnow let us talk
about our own affairs. You know, Maximilian, grandpapa once thought of
leaving this house, and taking an apartment away from M. de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңI recollect the project, of which I highly
approved.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңyou may approve again, for grandpapa is again
thinking of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBravo,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian.

40272m



ГўВҖВңAnd do you know,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңwhat reason grandpapa gives for
leaving this house.ГўВҖВқ Noirtier looked at Valentine to impose silence,
but she did not notice him; her looks, her eyes, her smile, were all
for Morrel.

ГўВҖВңOh, whatever may be M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs reason,ГўВҖВқ answered Morrel, ГўВҖВңI can
readily believe it to be a good one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn excellent one,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine. ГўВҖВңHe pretends the air of the
Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ© is not good for me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңin that M. Noirtier may be right; you have not
seemed to be well for the last fortnight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot very,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine. ГўВҖВңAnd grandpapa has become my physician, and
I have the greatest confidence in him, because he knows everything.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you then really suffer?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel quickly.

ГўВҖВңOh, it must not be called suffering; I feel a general uneasiness, that
is all. I have lost my appetite, and my stomach feels as if it were
struggling to get accustomed to something.ГўВҖВқ Noirtier did not lose a
word of what Valentine said.

ГўВҖВңAnd what treatment do you adopt for this singular complaint?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA very simple one,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine. ГўВҖВңI swallow every morning a
spoonful of the mixture prepared for my grandfather. When I say one
spoonful, I began by oneГўВҖВ”now I take four. Grandpapa says it is a
panacea.ГўВҖВқ Valentine smiled, but it was evident that she suffered.

Maximilian, in his devotedness, gazed silently at her. She was very
beautiful, but her usual pallor had increased; her eyes were more
brilliant than ever, and her hands, which were generally white like
mother-of-pearl, now more resembled wax, to which time was adding a
yellowish hue.

From Valentine the young man looked towards Noirtier. The latter
watched with strange and deep interest the young girl, absorbed by her
affection, and he also, like Morrel, followed those traces of inward
suffering which was so little perceptible to a common observer that
they escaped the notice of everyone but the grandfather and the lover.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңI thought this mixture, of which you now take four
spoonfuls, was prepared for M. Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it is very bitter,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңso bitter, that all I
drink afterwards appears to have the same taste.ГўВҖВқ Noirtier looked
inquiringly at his granddaughter. ГўВҖВңYes, grandpapa,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңit
is so. Just now, before I came down to you, I drank a glass of sugared
water; I left half, because it seemed so bitter.ГўВҖВқ Noirtier turned pale,
and made a sign that he wished to speak.

Valentine rose to fetch the dictionary. Noirtier watched her with
evident anguish. In fact, the blood was rushing to the young girlГўВҖВҷs
head already, her cheeks were becoming red.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried she, without losing any of her cheerfulness, ГўВҖВңthis is
singular! I canГўВҖВҷt see! Did the sun shine in my eyes?ГўВҖВқ And she leaned
against the window.

ГўВҖВңThe sun is not shining,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, more alarmed by NoirtierГўВҖВҷs
expression than by ValentineГўВҖВҷs indisposition. He ran towards her. The
young girl smiled.

ГўВҖВңCheer up,ГўВҖВқ said she to Noirtier. ГўВҖВңDo not be alarmed, Maximilian; it is
nothing, and has already passed away. But listen! Do I not hear a
carriage in the courtyard?ГўВҖВқ She opened NoirtierГўВҖВҷs door, ran to a window
in the passage, and returned hastily. ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңit is Madame
Danglars and her daughter, who have come to call on us. Good-bye;ГўВҖВ”I
must run away, for they would send here for me, or, rather, farewell
till I see you again. Stay with grandpapa, Maximilian; I promise you
not to persuade them to stay.ГўВҖВқ

40274m



Morrel watched her as she left the room; he heard her ascend the little
staircase which led both to Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs apartments and to
hers. As soon as she was gone, Noirtier made a sign to Morrel to take
the dictionary. Morrel obeyed; guided by Valentine, he had learned how
to understand the old man quickly. Accustomed, however, as he was to
the work, he had to repeat most of the letters of the alphabet and to
find every word in the dictionary, so that it was ten minutes before
the thought of the old man was translated by these words,

ГўВҖВңFetch the glass of water and the decanter from ValentineГўВҖВҷs room.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel rang immediately for the servant who had taken BarroisГўВҖВҷs
situation, and in NoirtierГўВҖВҷs name gave that order. The servant soon
returned. The decanter and the glass were completely empty. Noirtier
made a sign that he wished to speak.

ГўВҖВңWhy are the glass and decanter empty?ГўВҖВқ asked he; ГўВҖВңValentine said she
only drank half the glassful.ГўВҖВқ

The translation of this new question occupied another five minutes.

ГўВҖВңI do not know,ГўВҖВқ said the servant, ГўВҖВңbut the housemaid is in
Mademoiselle ValentineГўВҖВҷs room: perhaps she has emptied them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAsk her,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, translating NoirtierГўВҖВҷs thought this time by his
look. The servant went out, but returned almost immediately.
ГўВҖВңMademoiselle Valentine passed through the room to go to Madame de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңand in passing, as she was thirsty, she drank
what remained in the glass; as for the decanter, Master Edward had
emptied that to make a pond for his ducks.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven, as a gambler does who stakes his
all on one stroke. From that moment the old manГўВҖВҷs eyes were fixed on
the door, and did not quit it.

It was indeed Madame Danglars and her daughter whom Valentine had seen;
they had been ushered into Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs room, who had said she
would receive them there. That is why Valentine passed through her
room, which was on a level with ValentineГўВҖВҷs, and only separated from it
by EdwardГўВҖВҷs. The two ladies entered the drawing-room with that sort of
official stiffness which preludes a formal communication. Among worldly
people manner is contagious. Madame de Villefort received them with
equal solemnity. Valentine entered at this moment, and the formalities
were resumed.

ГўВҖВңMy dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, while the two young people were
shaking hands, ГўВҖВңI and EugГғВ©nie are come to be the first to announce to
you the approaching marriage of my daughter with Prince Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ
Danglars kept up the title of prince. The popular banker found that it
answered better than count.

ГўВҖВңAllow me to present you my sincere congratulations,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame de
Villefort. ГўВҖВңPrince Cavalcanti appears to be a young man of rare
qualities.ГўВҖВқ

40276m



ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, smiling; ГўВҖВңspeaking to you as a friend I
can say that the prince does not yet appear all he will be. He has
about him a little of that foreign manner by which French persons
recognize, at first sight, the Italian or German nobleman. Besides, he
gives evidence of great kindness of disposition, much keenness of wit,
and as to suitability, M. Danglars assures me that his fortune is
majesticГўВҖВ”that is his word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd then,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie, while turning over the leaves of Madame de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs album, ГўВҖВңadd that you have taken a great fancy to the young
man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңI need not ask you if you share that
fancy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ replied EugГғВ©nie with her usual candor. ГўВҖВңOh, not the least in the
world, madame! My wish was not to confine myself to domestic cares, or
the caprices of any man, but to be an artist, and consequently free in
heart, in person, and in thought.ГўВҖВқ

EugГғВ©nie pronounced these words with so firm a tone that the color
mounted to ValentineГўВҖВҷs cheeks. The timid girl could not understand that
vigorous nature which appeared to have none of the timidities of woman.

ГўВҖВңAt any rate,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңsince I am to be married whether I will or
not, I ought to be thankful to Providence for having released me from
my engagement with M. Albert de Morcerf, or I should this day have been
the wife of a dishonored man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is true,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, with that strange simplicity sometimes
met with among fashionable ladies, and of which plebeian intercourse
can never entirely deprive them,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңit is very true that had not the
Morcerfs hesitated, my daughter would have married Monsieur Albert. The
general depended much on it; he even came to force M. Danglars. We have
had a narrow escape.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, timidly, ГўВҖВңdoes all the fatherГўВҖВҷs shame revert
upon the son? Monsieur Albert appears to me quite innocent of the
treason charged against the general.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcuse me,ГўВҖВқ said the implacable young girl, ГўВҖВңMonsieur Albert claims
and well deserves his share. It appears that after having challenged M.
de Monte Cristo at the Opera yesterday, he apologized on the ground
today.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpossible,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, with the same simplicity we
before noticed, ГўВҖВңit is a fact. I heard it from M. Debray, who was
present at the explanation.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine also knew the truth, but she did not answer. A single word
had reminded her that Morrel was expecting her in M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room.
Deeply engaged with a sort of inward contemplation, Valentine had
ceased for a moment to join in the conversation. She would, indeed,
have found it impossible to repeat what had been said the last few
minutes, when suddenly Madame DanglarsГўВҖВҷ hand, pressed on her arm,
aroused her from her lethargy.

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ said she, starting at Madame DanglarsГўВҖВҷ touch as she would
have done from an electric shock.

ГўВҖВңIt is, my dear Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, ГўВҖВңthat you are,
doubtless, suffering.ГўВҖВқ

40280m



ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ said the young girl, passing her hand across her burning forehead.

ГўВҖВңYes, look at yourself in that glass; you have turned pale and then red
successively, three or four times in one minute.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ cried EugГғВ©nie, ГўВҖВңyou are very pale!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, do not be alarmed; I have been so for many days.ГўВҖВқ Artless as she
was, the young girl knew that this was an opportunity to leave, and
besides, Madame de Villefort came to her assistance.

ГўВҖВңRetire, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңyou are really suffering, and these
ladies will excuse you; drink a glass of pure water, it will restore
you.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine kissed EugГғВ©nie, bowed to Madame Danglars, who had already
risen to take her leave, and went out.

ГўВҖВңThat poor child,ГўВҖВқ said Madame de Villefort when Valentine was gone,
ГўВҖВңshe makes me very uneasy, and I should not be astonished if she had
some serious illness.ГўВҖВқ

Meanwhile, Valentine, in a sort of excitement which she could not quite
understand, had crossed EdwardГўВҖВҷs room without noticing some trick of
the child, and through her own had reached the little staircase.

She was within three steps of the bottom; she already heard MorrelГўВҖВҷs
voice, when suddenly a cloud passed over her eyes, her stiffened foot
missed the step, her hands had no power to hold the baluster, and
falling against the wall she lost her balance wholly and toppled to the
floor. Morrel bounded to the door, opened it, and found Valentine
stretched out at the bottom of the stairs. Quick as a flash, he raised
her in his arms and placed her in a chair. Valentine opened her eyes.

ГўВҖВңOh, what a clumsy thing I am,ГўВҖВқ said she with feverish volubility; ГўВҖВңI
donГўВҖВҷt know my way. I forgot there were three more steps before the
landing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have hurt yourself, perhaps,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel. ГўВҖВңWhat can I do for you,
Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

Valentine looked around her; she saw the deepest terror depicted in
NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eyes.

ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt worry, dear grandpapa,ГўВҖВқ said she, endeavoring to smile; ГўВҖВңit is
nothingГўВҖВ”it is nothing; I was giddy, that is all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnother attack of giddiness,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, clasping his hands. ГўВҖВңOh,
attend to it, Valentine, I entreat you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut no,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңno, I tell you it is all past, and it was
nothing. Now, let me tell you some news; EugГғВ©nie is to be married in a
week, and in three days there is to be a grand feast, a betrothal
festival. We are all invited, my father, Madame de Villefort, and IГўВҖВ”at
least, I understood it so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen will it be our turn to think of these things? Oh, Valentine, you
who have so much influence over your grandpapa, try to make him
answerГўВҖВ”Soon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңdepend on me to stimulate the tardiness
and arouse the memory of grandpapa?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, ГўВҖВңmake haste. So long as you are not mine,
Valentine, I shall always think I may lose you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ replied Valentine with a convulsive movement, ГўВҖВңoh, indeed,
Maximilian, you are too timid for an officer, for a soldier who, they
say, never knows fear. Ha, ha, ha!ГўВҖВқ

She burst into a forced and melancholy laugh, her arms stiffened and
twisted, her head fell back on her chair, and she remained motionless.
The cry of terror which was stopped on NoirtierГўВҖВҷs lips, seemed to start
from his eyes. Morrel understood it; he knew he must call assistance.
The young man rang the bell violently; the housemaid who had been in
Mademoiselle ValentineГўВҖВҷs room, and the servant who had replaced
Barrois, ran in at the same moment. Valentine was so pale, so cold, so
inanimate that without listening to what was said to them they were
seized with the fear which pervaded that house, and they flew into the
passage crying for help. Madame Danglars and EugГғВ©nie were going out at
that moment; they heard the cause of the disturbance.

ГўВҖВңI told you so!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Madame de Villefort. ГўВҖВңPoor child!ГўВҖВқ

40278m




 Chapter 94. MaximilianГўВҖВҷs Avowal

At the same moment M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs voice was heard calling from his
study, ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ

Morrel looked at Noirtier who had recovered his self-command, and with
a glance indicated the closet where once before under somewhat similar
circumstances, he had taken refuge. He had only time to get his hat and
throw himself breathless into the closet when the procureurГўВҖВҷs footstep
was heard in the passage.

Villefort sprang into the room, ran to Valentine, and took her in his
arms.

ГўВҖВңA physician, a physician,ГўВҖВ”M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny!ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort; ГўВҖВңor rather I
will go for him myself.ГўВҖВқ

He flew from the apartment, and Morrel at the same moment darted out at
the other door. He had been struck to the heart by a frightful
recollectionГўВҖВ”the conversation he had heard between the doctor and
Villefort the night of Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs death, recurred to him;
these symptoms, to a less alarming extent, were the same which had
preceded the death of Barrois. At the same time Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs voice
seemed to resound in his ear with the words he had heard only two hours
before, ГўВҖВңWhatever you want, Morrel, come to me; I have great power.ГўВҖВқ

More rapidly than thought, he darted down the Rue Matignon, and thence
to the Avenue des Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es.

Meanwhile M. de Villefort arrived in a hired cabriolet at M.
dГўВҖВҷAvrignyГўВҖВҷs door. He rang so violently that the porter was alarmed.
Villefort ran upstairs without saying a word. The porter knew him, and
let him pass, only calling to him:

ГўВҖВңIn his study, Monsieur ProcureurГўВҖВ”in his study!ГўВҖВқ Villefort pushed, or
rather forced, the door open.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor, ГўВҖВңis it you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, closing the door after him, ГўВҖВңit is I, who am
come in my turn to ask you if we are quite alone. Doctor, my house is
accursed!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВқ said the latter with apparent coolness, but with deep emotion,
ГўВҖВңhave you another invalid?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, doctor,ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, clutching his hair, ГўВҖВңyes!ГўВҖВқ

DГўВҖВҷAvrignyГўВҖВҷs look implied, ГўВҖВңI told you it would be so.ГўВҖВқ Then he slowly
uttered these words, ГўВҖВңWho is now dying in your house? What new victim
is going to accuse you of weakness before God?ГўВҖВқ

A mournful sob burst from VillefortГўВҖВҷs heart; he approached the doctor,
and seizing his arm,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңit is ValentineГўВҖВҷs turn!ГўВҖВқ

40284m



ГўВҖВңYour daughter!ГўВҖВқ cried dГўВҖВҷAvrigny with grief and surprise.

ГўВҖВңYou see you were deceived,ГўВҖВқ murmured the magistrate; ГўВҖВңcome and see
her, and on her bed of agony entreat her pardon for having suspected
her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEach time you have applied to me,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor, ГўВҖВңit has been too
late; still I will go. But let us make haste, sir; with the enemies you
have to do with there is no time to be lost.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, this time, doctor, you shall not have to reproach me with
weakness. This time I will know the assassin, and will pursue him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet us try first to save the victim before we think of revenging her,ГўВҖВқ
said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny. ГўВҖВңCome.ГўВҖВқ

The same cabriolet which had brought Villefort took them back at full
speed, and at this moment Morrel rapped at Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs door.

The count was in his study and was reading with an angry look something
which Bertuccio had brought in haste. Hearing the name of Morrel, who
had left him only two hours before, the count raised his head, arose,
and sprang to meet him.

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ asked he; ГўВҖВңyou are pale, and the
perspiration rolls from your forehead.ГўВҖВқ Morrel fell into a chair.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI came quickly; I wanted to speak to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre all your family well?ГўВҖВқ asked the count, with an affectionate
benevolence, whose sincerity no one could for a moment doubt.

ГўВҖВңThank you, countГўВҖВ”thank you,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, evidently embarrassed
how to begin the conversation; ГўВҖВңyes, everyone in my family is well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the better; yet you have something to tell me?ГўВҖВқ replied the
count with increased anxiety.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңit is true; I have but now left a house where
death has just entered, to run to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you then come from M. de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңis someone dead in his house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe general has just blown his brains out,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo with
great coolness.

ГўВҖВңOh, what a dreadful event!ГўВҖВқ cried Maximilian.

ГўВҖВңNot for the countess, or for Albert,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңa dead
father or husband is better than a dishonored one,ГўВҖВ”blood washes out
shame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor countess,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңI pity her very much; she is so
noble a woman!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPity Albert also, Maximilian; for believe me he is the worthy son of
the countess. But let us return to yourself. You have hastened to
meГўВҖВ”can I have the happiness of being useful to you?ГўВҖВқ

40286m



ГўВҖВңYes, I need your help: that is I thought like a madman that you could
lend me your assistance in a case where God alone can succor me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me what it is,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңI know not, indeed, if I may reveal this secret to
mortal ears, but fatality impels me, necessity constrains me, countГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ
Morrel hesitated.

ГўВҖВңDo you think I love you?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, taking the young manГўВҖВҷs
hand affectionately in his.

ГўВҖВңOh, you encourage me, and something tells me there,ГўВҖВқ placing his hand
on his heart, ГўВҖВңthat I ought to have no secret from you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right, Morrel; God is speaking to your heart, and your heart
speaks to you. Tell me what it says.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount, will you allow me to send Baptistin to inquire after someone
you know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am at your service, and still more my servants.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I cannot live if she is not better.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall I ring for Baptistin?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I will go and speak to him myself.ГўВҖВқ Morrel went out, called
Baptistin, and whispered a few words to him. The valet ran directly.

ГўВҖВңWell, have you sent?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo, seeing Morrel return.

ГўВҖВңYes, and now I shall be more calm.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know I am waiting,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, smiling.

ГўВҖВңYes, and I will tell you. One evening I was in a garden; a clump of
trees concealed me; no one suspected I was there. Two persons passed
near meГўВҖВ”allow me to conceal their names for the present; they were
speaking in an undertone, and yet I was so interested in what they said
that I did not lose a single word.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is a gloomy introduction, if I may judge from your pallor and
shuddering, Morrel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, very gloomy, my friend. Someone had just died in the house to
which that garden belonged. One of the persons whose conversation I
overheard was the master of the house; the other, the physician. The
former was confiding to the latter his grief and fear, for it was the
second time within a month that death had suddenly and unexpectedly
entered that house which was apparently destined to destruction by some
exterminating angel, as an object of GodГўВҖВҷs anger.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, looking earnestly at the young man,
and by an imperceptible movement turning his chair, so that he remained
in the shade while the light fell full on MaximilianГўВҖВҷs face.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ continued Morrel, ГўВҖВңdeath had entered that house twice within one
month.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what did the doctor answer?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңHe repliedГўВҖВ”he replied, that the death was not a natural one, and must
be attributedГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңTo what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo poison.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed!ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with a slight cough which in moments of
extreme emotion helped him to disguise a blush, or his pallor, or the
intense interest with which he listened; ГўВҖВңindeed, Maximilian, did you
hear that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, my dear count, I heard it; and the doctor added that if another
death occurred in a similar way he must appeal to justice.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo listened, or appeared to do so, with the greatest
calmness.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңdeath came a third time, and neither the
master of the house nor the doctor said a word. Death is now, perhaps,
striking a fourth blow. Count, what am I bound to do, being in
possession of this secret?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy dear friend,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou appear to be relating an
adventure which we all know by heart. I know the house where you heard
it, or one very similar to it; a house with a garden, a master, a
physician, and where there have been three unexpected and sudden
deaths. Well, I have not intercepted your confidence, and yet I know
all that as well as you, and I have no conscientious scruples. No, it
does not concern me. You say an exterminating angel appears to have
devoted that house to GodГўВҖВҷs angerГўВҖВ”well, who says your supposition is
not reality? Do not notice things which those whose interest it is to
see them pass over. If it is GodГўВҖВҷs justice, instead of his anger, which
is walking through that house, Maximilian, turn away your face and let
his justice accomplish its purpose.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel shuddered. There was something mournful, solemn, and terrible in
the countГўВҖВҷs manner.

ГўВҖВңBesides,ГўВҖВқ continued he, in so changed a tone that no one would have
supposed it was the same person speakingГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңbesides, who says that it
will begin again?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt has returned, count,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel; ГўВҖВңthat is why I hastened to
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, what do you wish me to do? Do you wish me, for instance, to give
information to the procureur?ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo uttered the last words with
so much meaning that Morrel, starting up, cried out:

ГўВҖВңYou know of whom I speak, count, do you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerfectly well, my good friend; and I will prove it to you by putting
the dots to the _i_, or rather by naming the persons. You were walking
one evening in M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs garden; from what you relate, I
suppose it to have been the evening of Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs death.
You heard M. de Villefort talking to M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny about the death of M.
de Saint-MГғВ©ran, and that no less surprising, of the countess. M.
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny said he believed they both proceeded from poison; and you,
honest man, have ever since been asking your heart and sounding your
conscience to know if you ought to expose or conceal this secret. We
are no longer in the Middle Ages; there is no longer a Vehmgericht, or
Free Tribunals; what do you want to ask these people? ГўВҖВҳConscience, what
hast thou to do with me?ГўВҖВҷ as Sterne said. My dear fellow, let them
sleep on, if they are asleep; let them grow pale in their drowsiness,
if they are disposed to do so, and pray do you remain in peace, who
have no remorse to disturb you.ГўВҖВқ

Deep grief was depicted on MorrelГўВҖВҷs features; he seized Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs
hand. ГўВҖВңBut it is beginning again, I say!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the Count, astonished at his perseverance, which he could
not understand, and looking still more earnestly at Maximilian, ГўВҖВңlet it
begin again,ГўВҖВ”it is like the house of the Atreidae;19 God has condemned
them, and they must submit to their punishment. They will all
disappear, like the fabrics children build with cards, and which fall,
one by one, under the breath of their builder, even if there are two
hundred of them. Three months since it was M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran; Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran two months since; the other day it was Barrois; today, the
old Noirtier, or young Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou knew it?ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, in such a paroxysm of terror that Monte
Cristo started,ГўВҖВ”he whom the falling heavens would have found unmoved;
ГўВҖВңyou knew it, and said nothing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is it to me?ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, shrugging his shoulders;
ГўВҖВңdo I know those people? and must I lose the one to save the other?
Faith, no, for between the culprit and the victim I have no choice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut I,ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, groaning with sorrow, ГўВҖВңI love her!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou love?ГўВҖВ”whom?ГўВҖВқ cried Monte Cristo, starting to his feet, and seizing
the two hands which Morrel was raising towards heaven.

ГўВҖВңI love most fondlyГўВҖВ”I love madlyГўВҖВ”I love as a man who would give his
life-blood to spare her a tearГўВҖВ”I love Valentine de Villefort, who is
being murdered at this moment! Do you understand me? I love her; and I
ask God and you how I can save her?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo uttered a cry which those only can conceive who have heard
the roar of a wounded lion. ГўВҖВңUnhappy man,ГўВҖВқ cried he, wringing his hands
in his turn; ГўВҖВңyou love Valentine,ГўВҖВ”that daughter of an accursed race!ГўВҖВқ

Never had Morrel witnessed such an expressionГўВҖВ”never had so terrible an
eye flashed before his faceГўВҖВ”never had the genius of terror he had so
often seen, either on the battle-field or in the murderous nights of
Algeria, shaken around him more dreadful fire. He drew back terrified.

As for Monte Cristo, after this ebullition he closed his eyes as if
dazzled by internal light. In a moment he restrained himself so
powerfully that the tempestuous heaving of his breast subsided, as
turbulent and foaming waves yield to the sunГўВҖВҷs genial influence when
the cloud has passed. This silence, self-control, and struggle lasted
about twenty seconds, then the count raised his pallid face.

ГўВҖВңSee,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңmy dear friend, how God punishes the most thoughtless
and unfeeling men for their indifference, by presenting dreadful scenes
to their view. I, who was looking on, an eager and curious
spectator,ГўВҖВ”I, who was watching the working of this mournful tragedy,ГўВҖВ”I,
who like a wicked angel was laughing at the evil men committed
protected by secrecy (a secret is easily kept by the rich and
powerful), I am in my turn bitten by the serpent whose tortuous course
I was watching, and bitten to the heart!ГўВҖВқ

Morrel groaned.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ continued the count, ГўВҖВңcomplaints are unavailing, be a
man, be strong, be full of hope, for I am here and will watch over
you.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel shook his head sorrowfully.

ГўВҖВңI tell you to hope. Do you understand me?ГўВҖВқ cried Monte Cristo.
ГўВҖВңRemember that I never uttered a falsehood and am never deceived. It is
twelve oГўВҖВҷclock, Maximilian; thank heaven that you came at noon rather
than in the evening, or tomorrow morning. Listen, MorrelГўВҖВ”it is noon; if
Valentine is not now dead, she will not die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, ГўВҖВңwhen I left her dying?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo pressed his hands to his forehead. What was passing in
that brain, so loaded with dreadful secrets? What does the angel of
light or the angel of darkness say to that mind, at once implacable and
generous? God only knows.

Monte Cristo raised his head once more, and this time he was calm as a
child awaking from its sleep.

ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңreturn home. I command you not to stirГўВҖВ”attempt
nothing, not to let your countenance betray a thought, and I will send
you tidings. Go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, count, you overwhelm me with that coolness. Have you, then, power
against death? Are you superhuman? Are you an angel?ГўВҖВқ And the young
man, who had never shrunk from danger, shrank before Monte Cristo with
indescribable terror. But Monte Cristo looked at him with so melancholy
and sweet a smile, that Maximilian felt the tears filling his eyes.

ГўВҖВңI can do much for you, my friend,ГўВҖВқ replied the count. ГўВҖВңGo; I must be
alone.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel, subdued by the extraordinary ascendancy Monte Cristo exercised
over everything around him, did not endeavor to resist it. He pressed
the countГўВҖВҷs hand and left. He stopped one moment at the door for
Baptistin, whom he saw in the Rue Matignon, and who was running.

Meanwhile, Villefort and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny had made all possible haste,
Valentine had not revived from her fainting fit on their arrival, and
the doctor examined the invalid with all the care the circumstances
demanded, and with an interest which the knowledge of the secret
intensified twofold. Villefort, closely watching his countenance and
his lips, awaited the result of the examination. Noirtier, paler than
even the young girl, more eager than Villefort for the decision, was
watching also intently and affectionately.

At last dГўВҖВҷAvrigny slowly uttered these words: ГўВҖВңShe is still alive!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill?ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort; ГўВҖВңoh, doctor, what a dreadful word is that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the physician, ГўВҖВңI repeat it; she is still alive, and I am
astonished at it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut is she safe?ГўВҖВқ asked the father.

ГўВҖВңYes, since she lives.ГўВҖВқ

At that moment dГўВҖВҷAvrignyГўВҖВҷs glance met NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eye. It glistened with
such extraordinary joy, so rich and full of thought, that the physician
was struck. He placed the young girl again on the chair,ГўВҖВ”her lips were
scarcely discernible, they were so pale and white, as well as her whole
face,ГўВҖВ”and remained motionless, looking at Noirtier, who appeared to
anticipate and commend all he did.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny to Villefort, ГўВҖВңcall Mademoiselle ValentineГўВҖВҷs
maid, if you please.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort went himself to find her; and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny approached Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңHave you something to tell me?ГўВҖВқ asked he. The old man winked his eyes
expressively, which we may remember was his only way of expressing his
approval.

ГўВҖВңPrivately?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I will remain with you.ГўВҖВқ At this moment Villefort returned,
followed by the ladyГўВҖВҷs maid; and after her came Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter, then, with this dear child? she has just left me,
and she complained of being indisposed, but I did not think seriously
of it.ГўВҖВқ

The young woman with tears in her eyes and every mark of affection of a
true mother, approached Valentine and took her hand. DГўВҖВҷAvrigny
continued to look at Noirtier; he saw the eyes of the old man dilate
and become round, his cheeks turn pale and tremble; the perspiration
stood in drops upon his forehead.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said he, involuntarily following NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eyes, which were
fixed on Madame de Villefort, who repeated:

ГўВҖВңThis poor child would be better in bed. Come, Fanny, we will put her
to bed.ГўВҖВқ

M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, who saw that would be a means of his remaining alone with
Noirtier, expressed his opinion that it was the best thing that could
be done; but he forbade that anything should be given to her except
what he ordered.

They carried Valentine away; she had revived, but could scarcely move
or speak, so shaken was her frame by the attack. She had, however, just
power to give one parting look to her grandfather, who in losing her
seemed to be resigning his very soul. DГўВҖВҷAvrigny followed the invalid,
wrote a prescription, ordered Villefort to take a cabriolet, go in
person to a chemistГўВҖВҷs to get the prescribed medicine, bring it himself,
and wait for him in his daughterГўВҖВҷs room. Then, having renewed his
injunction not to give Valentine anything, he went down again to
Noirtier, shut the doors carefully, and after convincing himself that
no one was listening:

ГўВҖВңDo you,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңknow anything of this young ladyГўВҖВҷs illness?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the old man.

ГўВҖВңWe have no time to lose; I will question, and do you answer me.ГўВҖВқ
Noirtier made a sign that he was ready to answer. ГўВҖВңDid you anticipate
the accident which has happened to your granddaughter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ DГўВҖВҷAvrigny reflected a moment; then approaching Noirtier:

ГўВҖВңPardon what I am going to say,ГўВҖВқ added he, ГўВҖВңbut no indication should be
neglected in this terrible situation. Did you see poor Barrois die?ГўВҖВқ
Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven.

ГўВҖВңDo you know of what he died!ГўВҖВқ asked dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, placing his hand on
NoirtierГўВҖВҷs shoulder.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the old man.

ГўВҖВңDo you think he died a natural death?ГўВҖВқ A sort of smile was discernible
on the motionless lips of Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңThen you have thought that Barrois was poisoned?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think the poison he fell a victim to was intended for him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think the same hand which unintentionally struck Barrois has
now attacked Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen will she die too?ГўВҖВқ asked dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, fixing his penetrating gaze
on Noirtier. He watched the effect of this question on the old man.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied he with an air of triumph which would have puzzled the
most clever diviner.

ГўВҖВңThen you hope?ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, with surprise.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you hope?ГўВҖВқ The old man made him understand with his eyes that
he could not answer.

ГўВҖВңAh, yes, it is true,ГўВҖВқ murmured dГўВҖВҷAvrigny. Then, turning to
Noirtier,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңDo you hope the assassin will be tried?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you hope the poison will take no effect on Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is no news to you,ГўВҖВқ added dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңto tell you that an attempt
has been made to poison her?ГўВҖВқ The old man made a sign that he
entertained no doubt upon the subject. ГўВҖВңThen how do you hope Valentine
will escape?ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier kept his eyes steadfastly fixed on the same spot. DГўВҖВҷAvrigny
followed the direction and saw that they were fixed on a bottle
containing the mixture which he took every morning. ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВқ said
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, struck with a sudden thought, ГўВҖВңhas it occurred to
youГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”Noirtier did not let him finish.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңTo prepare her system to resist poison?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy accustoming her by degreesГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, yes,ГўВҖВқ said Noirtier, delighted to be understood.

ГўВҖВңOf course. I had told you that there was brucine in the mixture I give
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd by accustoming her to that poison, you have endeavored to
neutralize the effect of a similar poison?ГўВҖВқ NoirtierГўВҖВҷs joy continued.
ГўВҖВңAnd you have succeeded,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed dГўВҖВҷAvrigny. ГўВҖВңWithout that precaution
Valentine would have died before assistance could have been procured.
The dose has been excessive, but she has only been shaken by it; and
this time, at any rate, Valentine will not die.ГўВҖВқ

A superhuman joy expanded the old manГўВҖВҷs eyes, which were raised towards
heaven with an expression of infinite gratitude. At this moment
Villefort returned.

ГўВҖВңHere, doctor,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңis what you sent me for.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas this prepared in your presence?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the procureur.

ГўВҖВңHave you not let it go out of your hands?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

DГўВҖВҷAvrigny took the bottle, poured some drops of the mixture it
contained in the hollow of his hand, and swallowed them.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңlet us go to Valentine; I will give instructions to
everyone, and you, M. de Villefort, will yourself see that no one
deviates from them.ГўВҖВқ

40294m



At the moment when dГўВҖВҷAvrigny was returning to ValentineГўВҖВҷs room,
accompanied by Villefort, an Italian priest, of serious demeanor and
calm and firm tone, hired for his use the house adjoining the hotel of
M. de Villefort. No one knew how the three former tenants of that house
left it. About two hours afterwards its foundation was reported to be
unsafe; but the report did not prevent the new occupant establishing
himself there with his modest furniture the same day at five oГўВҖВҷclock.
The lease was drawn up for three, six, or nine years by the new tenant,
who, according to the rule of the proprietor, paid six months in
advance.

This new tenant, who, as we have said, was an Italian, was called Il
Signor Giacomo Busoni. Workmen were immediately called in, and that
same night the passengers at the end of the faubourg saw with surprise
that carpenters and masons were occupied in repairing the lower part of
the tottering house.



 Chapter 95. Father and Daughter

We saw in a preceding chapter how Madame Danglars went formally to
announce to Madame de Villefort the approaching marriage of EugГғВ©nie
Danglars and M. Andrea Cavalcanti. This formal announcement, which
implied or appeared to imply, the approval of all the persons concerned
in this momentous affair, had been preceded by a scene to which our
readers must be admitted. We beg them to take one step backward, and to
transport themselves, the morning of that day of great catastrophes,
into the showy, gilded salon we have before shown them, and which was
the pride of its owner, Baron Danglars.

In this room, at about ten oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning, the banker himself
had been walking to and fro for some minutes thoughtfully and in
evident uneasiness, watching both doors, and listening to every sound.
When his patience was exhausted, he called his valet.

ГўВҖВңГғВүtienne,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңsee why Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie has asked me to meet
her in the drawing-room, and why she makes me wait so long.ГўВҖВқ

Having given this vent to his ill-humor, the baron became more calm;
Mademoiselle Danglars had that morning requested an interview with her
father, and had fixed on the gilded drawing-room as the spot. The
singularity of this step, and above all its formality, had not a little
surprised the banker, who had immediately obeyed his daughter by
repairing first to the drawing-room. ГғВүtienne soon returned from his
errand.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselleГўВҖВҷs ladyГўВҖВҷs maid says, sir, that mademoiselle is finishing
her toilette, and will be here shortly.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars nodded, to signify that he was satisfied. To the world and to
his servants Danglars assumed the character of the good-natured man and
the indulgent father. This was one of his parts in the popular comedy
he was performing,ГўВҖВ”a make-up he had adopted and which suited him about
as well as the masks worn on the classic stage by paternal actors, who
seen from one side, were the image of geniality, and from the other
showed lips drawn down in chronic ill-temper. Let us hasten to say that
in private the genial side descended to the level of the other, so that
generally the indulgent man disappeared to give place to the brutal
husband and domineering father.

ГўВҖВңWhy the devil does that foolish girl, who pretends to wish to speak to
me, not come into my study? and why on earth does she want to speak to
me at all?ГўВҖВқ

He was turning this thought over in his brain for the twentieth time,
when the door opened and EugГғВ©nie appeared, attired in a figured black
satin dress, her hair dressed and gloves on, as if she were going to
the Italian Opera.

ГўВҖВңWell, EugГғВ©nie, what is it you want with me? and why in this solemn
drawing-room when the study is so comfortable?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI quite understand why you ask, sir,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie, making a sign that
her father might be seated, ГўВҖВңand in fact your two questions suggest
fully the theme of our conversation. I will answer them both, and
contrary to the usual method, the last first, because it is the least
difficult. I have chosen the drawing-room, sir, as our place of
meeting, in order to avoid the disagreeable impressions and influences
of a bankerГўВҖВҷs study. Those gilded cashbooks, drawers locked like gates
of fortresses, heaps of bank-bills, come from I know not where, and the
quantities of letters from England, Holland, Spain, India, China, and
Peru, have generally a strange influence on a fatherГўВҖВҷs mind, and make
him forget that there is in the world an interest greater and more
sacred than the good opinion of his correspondents. I have, therefore,
chosen this drawing-room, where you see, smiling and happy in their
magnificent frames, your portrait, mine, my motherГўВҖВҷs, and all sorts of
rural landscapes and touching pastorals. I rely much on external
impressions; perhaps, with regard to you, they are immaterial, but I
should be no artist if I had not some fancies.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well,ГўВҖВқ replied M. Danglars, who had listened to all this preamble
with imperturbable coolness, but without understanding a word, since
like every man burdened with thoughts of the past, he was occupied with
seeking the thread of his own ideas in those of the speaker.

ГўВҖВңThere is, then, the second point cleared up, or nearly so,ГўВҖВқ said
EugГғВ©nie, without the least confusion, and with that masculine
pointedness which distinguished her gesture and her language; ГўВҖВңand you
appear satisfied with the explanation. Now, let us return to the first.
You ask me why I have requested this interview; I will tell you in two
words, sir; I will not marry count Andrea Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars leaped from his chair and raised his eyes and arms towards
heaven.

40298m



ГўВҖВңYes, indeed, sir,ГўВҖВқ continued EugГғВ©nie, still quite calm; ГўВҖВңyou are
astonished, I see; for since this little affair began, I have not
manifested the slightest opposition, and yet I am always sure, when the
opportunity arrives, to oppose a determined and absolute will to people
who have not consulted me, and things which displease me. However, this
time, my tranquillity, or passiveness as philosophers say, proceeded
from another source; it proceeded from a wish, like a submissive and
devoted daughterГўВҖВқ (a slight smile was observable on the purple lips of
the young girl), ГўВҖВңto practice obedience.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars.

ГўВҖВңWell, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied EugГғВ©nie, ГўВҖВңI have tried to the very last and now
that the moment has come, I feel in spite of all my efforts that it is
impossible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, whose weak mind was at first quite overwhelmed
with the weight of this pitiless logic, marking evident premeditation
and force of will, ГўВҖВңwhat is your reason for this refusal, EugГғВ©nie? what
reason do you assign?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy reason?ГўВҖВқ replied the young girl. ГўВҖВңWell, it is not that the man is
more ugly, more foolish, or more disagreeable than any other; no, M.
Andrea Cavalcanti may appear to those who look at menГўВҖВҷs faces and
figures as a very good specimen of his kind. It is not, either, that my
heart is less touched by him than any other; that would be a
schoolgirlГўВҖВҷs reason, which I consider quite beneath me. I actually love
no one, sir; you know it, do you not? I do not then see why, without
real necessity, I should encumber my life with a perpetual companion.
Has not some sage said, ГўВҖВҳNothing too muchГўВҖВҷ? and another, ГўВҖВҳI carry all
my effects with meГўВҖВҷ? I have been taught these two aphorisms in Latin
and in Greek; one is, I believe, from PhГғВҰdrus, and the other from Bias.
Well, my dear father, in the shipwreck of lifeГўВҖВ”for life is an eternal
shipwreck of our hopesГўВҖВ”I cast into the sea my useless encumbrance, that
is all, and I remain with my own will, disposed to live perfectly
alone, and consequently perfectly free.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUnhappy girl, unhappy girl!ГўВҖВқ murmured Danglars, turning pale, for he
knew from long experience the solidity of the obstacle he had so
suddenly encountered.

ГўВҖВңUnhappy girl,ГўВҖВқ replied EugГғВ©nie, ГўВҖВңunhappy girl, do you say, sir? No,
indeed; the exclamation appears quite theatrical and affected. Happy,
on the contrary, for what am I in want of? The world calls me
beautiful. It is something to be well received. I like a favorable
reception; it expands the countenance, and those around me do not then
appear so ugly. I possess a share of wit, and a certain relative
sensibility, which enables me to draw from life in general, for the
support of mine, all I meet with that is good, like the monkey who
cracks the nut to get at its contents. I am rich, for you have one of
the first fortunes in France. I am your only daughter, and you are not
so exacting as the fathers of the Porte Saint-Martin and GaГғВ®tГғВ©, who
disinherit their daughters for not giving them grandchildren. Besides,
the provident law has deprived you of the power to disinherit me, at
least entirely, as it has also of the power to compel me to marry
Monsieur This or Monsieur That. And soГўВҖВ”being, beautiful, witty,
somewhat talented, as the comic operas say, and richГўВҖВ”and that is
happiness, sirГўВҖВ”why do you call me unhappy?ГўВҖВқ

Danglars, seeing his daughter smiling, and proud even to insolence,
could not entirely repress his brutal feelings, but they betrayed
themselves only by an exclamation. Under the fixed and inquiring gaze
levelled at him from under those beautiful black eyebrows, he prudently
turned away, and calmed himself immediately, daunted by the power of a
resolute mind.

ГўВҖВңTruly, my daughter,ГўВҖВқ replied he with a smile, ГўВҖВңyou are all you boast
of being, excepting one thing; I will not too hastily tell you which,
but would rather leave you to guess it.ГўВҖВқ

EugГғВ©nie looked at Danglars, much surprised that one flower of her crown
of pride, with which she had so superbly decked herself, should be
disputed.

ГўВҖВңMy daughter,ГўВҖВқ continued the banker, ГўВҖВңyou have perfectly explained to
me the sentiments which influence a girl like you, who is determined
she will not marry; now it remains for me to tell you the motives of a
father like me, who has decided that his daughter shall marry.ГўВҖВқ

EugГғВ©nie bowed, not as a submissive daughter, but as an adversary
prepared for a discussion.

ГўВҖВңMy daughter,ГўВҖВқ continued Danglars, ГўВҖВңwhen a father asks his daughter to
choose a husband, he has always some reason for wishing her to marry.
Some are affected with the mania of which you spoke just now, that of
living again in their grandchildren. This is not my weakness, I tell
you at once; family joys have no charm for me. I may acknowledge this
to a daughter whom I know to be philosophical enough to understand my
indifference, and not to impute it to me as a crime.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is not to the purpose,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie; ГўВҖВңlet us speak candidly,
sir; I admire candor.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңI can, when circumstances render it desirable,
adopt your system, although it may not be my general practice. I will
therefore proceed. I have proposed to you to marry, not for your sake,
for indeed I did not think of you in the least at the moment (you
admire candor, and will now be satisfied, I hope); but because it
suited me to marry you as soon as possible, on account of certain
commercial speculations I am desirous of entering into.ГўВҖВқ EugГғВ©nie became
uneasy.

40302m



ГўВҖВңIt is just as I tell you, I assure you, and you must not be angry with
me, for you have sought this disclosure. I do not willingly enter into
arithmetical explanations with an artist like you, who fears to enter
my study lest she should imbibe disagreeable or anti-poetic impressions
and sensations. But in that same bankerГўВҖВҷs study, where you very
willingly presented yourself yesterday to ask for the thousand francs I
give you monthly for pocket-money, you must know, my dear young lady,
that many things may be learned, useful even to a girl who will not
marry. There one may learn, for instance, what, out of regard to your
nervous susceptibility, I will inform you of in the drawing-room,
namely, that the credit of a banker is his physical and moral life;
that credit sustains him as breath animates the body; and M. de Monte
Cristo once gave me a lecture on that subject, which I have never
forgotten. There we may learn that as credit sinks, the body becomes a
corpse, and this is what must happen very soon to the banker who is
proud to own so good a logician as you for his daughter.ГўВҖВқ

But EugГғВ©nie, instead of stooping, drew herself up under the blow.
ГўВҖВңRuined?ГўВҖВқ said she.

ГўВҖВңExactly, my daughter; that is precisely what I mean,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars,
almost digging his nails into his breast, while he preserved on his
harsh features the smile of the heartless though clever man;
ГўВҖВңruinedГўВҖВ”yes, that is it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh!ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie.

ГўВҖВңYes, ruined! Now it is revealed, this secret so full of horror, as the
tragic poet says. Now, my daughter, learn from my lips how you may
alleviate this misfortune, so far as it will affect you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried EugГғВ©nie, ГўВҖВңyou are a bad physiognomist, if you imagine I
deplore on my own account the catastrophe of which you warn me. I
ruined? and what will that signify to me? Have I not my talent left?
Can I not, like Pasta, Malibran, Grisi, acquire for myself what you
would never have given me, whatever might have been your fortune, a
hundred or a hundred and fifty thousand livres per annum, for which I
shall be indebted to no one but myself; and which, instead of being
given as you gave me those poor twelve thousand francs, with sour looks
and reproaches for my prodigality, will be accompanied with
acclamations, with bravos, and with flowers? And if I do not possess
that talent, which your smiles prove to me you doubt, should I not
still have that ardent love of independence, which will be a substitute
for wealth, and which in my mind supersedes even the instinct of
self-preservation? No, I grieve not on my own account, I shall always
find a resource; my books, my pencils, my piano, all the things which
cost but little, and which I shall be able to procure, will remain my
own.

ГўВҖВңDo you think that I sorrow for Madame Danglars? Undeceive yourself
again; either I am greatly mistaken, or she has provided against the
catastrophe which threatens you, and, which will pass over without
affecting her. She has taken care for herself,ГўВҖВ”at least I hope so,ГўВҖВ”for
her attention has not been diverted from her projects by watching over
me. She has fostered my independence by professedly indulging my love
for liberty. Oh, no, sir; from my childhood I have seen too much, and
understood too much, of what has passed around me, for misfortune to
have an undue power over me. From my earliest recollections, I have
been beloved by no oneГўВҖВ”so much the worse; that has naturally led me to
love no oneГўВҖВ”so much the betterГўВҖВ”now you have my profession of faith.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, pale with anger, which was not at all due to
offended paternal love,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңthen, mademoiselle, you persist in your
determination to accelerate my ruin?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour ruin? I accelerate your ruin? What do you mean? I do not
understand you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the better, I have a ray of hope left; listen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am all attention,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie, looking so earnestly at her father
that it was an effort for the latter to endure her unrelenting gaze.

ГўВҖВңM. Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ continued Danglars, ГўВҖВңis about to marry you, and will
place in my hands his fortune, amounting to three million livres.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is admirable!ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie with sovereign contempt, smoothing
her gloves out one upon the other.

ГўВҖВңYou think I shall deprive you of those three millions,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars;
ГўВҖВңbut do not fear it. They are destined to produce at least ten. I and a
brother banker have obtained a grant of a railway, the only industrial
enterprise which in these days promises to make good the fabulous
prospects that Law once held out to the eternally deluded Parisians, in
the fantastic Mississippi scheme. As I look at it, a millionth part of
a railway is worth fully as much as an acre of waste land on the banks
of the Ohio. We make in our case a deposit, on a mortgage, which is an
advance, as you see, since we gain at least ten, fifteen, twenty, or a
hundred livresГўВҖВҷ worth of iron in exchange for our money. Well, within a
week I am to deposit four millions for my share; the four millions, I
promise you, will produce ten or twelve.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut during my visit to you the day before yesterday, sir, which you
appear to recollect so well,ГўВҖВқ replied EugГғВ©nie, ГўВҖВңI saw you arranging a
depositГўВҖВ”is not that the term?ГўВҖВ”of five millions and a half; you even
pointed it out to me in two drafts on the treasury, and you were
astonished that so valuable a paper did not dazzle my eyes like
lightning.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but those five millions and a half are not mine, and are only a
proof of the great confidence placed in me; my title of popular banker
has gained me the confidence of charitable institutions, and the five
millions and a half belong to them; at any other time I should not have
hesitated to make use of them, but the great losses I have recently
sustained are well known, and, as I told you, my credit is rather
shaken. That deposit may be at any moment withdrawn, and if I had
employed it for another purpose, I should bring on me a disgraceful
bankruptcy. I do not despise bankruptcies, believe me, but they must be
those which enrich, not those which ruin. Now, if you marry M.
Cavalcanti, and I get the three millions, or even if it is thought I am
going to get them, my credit will be restored, and my fortune, which
for the last month or two has been swallowed up in gulfs which have
been opened in my path by an inconceivable fatality, will revive. Do
you understand me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerfectly; you pledge me for three millions, do you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe greater the amount, the more flattering it is to you; it gives you
an idea of your value.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you. One word more, sir; do you promise me to make what use you
can of the report of the fortune M. Cavalcanti will bring without
touching the money? This is no act of selfishness, but of delicacy. I
am willing to help rebuild your fortune, but I will not be an
accomplice in the ruin of others.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut since I tell you,ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat with these three
millionГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you expect to recover your position, sir, without touching those
three million?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hope so, if the marriage should take place and confirm my credit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall you be able to pay M. Cavalcanti the five hundred thousand
francs you promise for my dowry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe shall receive them on returning from the mayorГўВҖВҷs20.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat next? what more do you want?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI wish to know if, in demanding my signature, you leave me entirely
free in my person?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAbsolutely.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, as I said before, sir,ГўВҖВ”very well; I am ready to marry M.
Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what are you up to?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is my affair. What advantage should I have over you, if
knowing your secret I were to tell you mine?ГўВҖВқ

Danglars bit his lips. ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңyou are ready to pay the
official visits, which are absolutely indispensable?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied EugГғВ©nie.

ГўВҖВңAnd to sign the contract in three days?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, in my turn, I also say, very well!ГўВҖВқ

Danglars pressed his daughterГўВҖВҷs hand in his. But, extraordinary to
relate, the father did not say, ГўВҖВңThank you, my child,ГўВҖВқ nor did the
daughter smile at her father.

ГўВҖВңIs the conference ended?ГўВҖВқ asked EugГғВ©nie, rising.

Danglars motioned that he had nothing more to say. Five minutes
afterwards the piano resounded to the touch of Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmillyГўВҖВҷs
fingers, and Mademoiselle Danglars was singing BrabantioГўВҖВҷs malediction
on Desdemona. At the end of the piece ГғВүtienne entered, and announced to
EugГғВ©nie that the horses were to the carriage, and that the baroness was
waiting for her to pay her visits. We have seen them at VillefortГўВҖВҷs;
they proceeded then on their course.

40306m




VOLUME FIVE

50009m



50011m



50019m




 Chapter 96. The Contract

Three days after the scene we have just described, namely towards five
oГўВҖВҷclock in the afternoon of the day fixed for the signature of the
contract between Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie Danglars and Andrea Cavalcanti,
whom the banker persisted in calling prince, a fresh breeze was
stirring the leaves in the little garden in front of the Count of Monte
CristoГўВҖВҷs house, and the count was preparing to go out. While his horses
were impatiently pawing the ground, held in by the coachman, who had
been seated a quarter of an hour on his box, the elegant phaeton with
which we are familiar rapidly turned the angle of the entrance-gate,
and cast out on the doorsteps M. Andrea Cavalcanti, as decked up and
gay as if he were going to marry a princess.

He inquired after the count with his usual familiarity, and ascending
lightly to the first story met him at the top of the stairs.

The count stopped on seeing the young man. As for Andrea, he was
launched, and when he was once launched nothing stopped him.

ГўВҖВңAh, good morning, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңAh, M. Andrea,ГўВҖВқ said the latter, with his half-jesting tone; ГўВҖВңhow do
you do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCharmingly, as you see. I am come to talk to you about a thousand
things; but, first tell me, were you going out or just returned?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was going out, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, in order not to hinder you, I will get up with you if you please
in your carriage, and Tom shall follow with my phaeton in tow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said the count, with an imperceptible smile of contempt, for he
had no wish to be seen in the young manГўВҖВҷs society,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңno; I prefer
listening to you here, my dear M. Andrea; we can chat better in-doors,
and there is no coachman to overhear our conversation.ГўВҖВқ

The count returned to a small drawing-room on the first floor, sat
down, and crossing his legs motioned to the young man to take a seat
also. Andrea assumed his gayest manner.

ГўВҖВңYou know, my dear count,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthe ceremony is to take place this
evening. At nine oГўВҖВҷclock the contract is to be signed at my
father-in-lawГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңWhat; is it news to you? Has not M. Danglars informed you of the
ceremony?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңI received a letter from him yesterday, but
I do not think the hour was mentioned.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPossibly my father-in-law trusted to its general notoriety.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou are fortunate, M. Cavalcanti; it is a
most suitable alliance you are contracting, and Mademoiselle Danglars
is a handsome girl.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed she is,ГўВҖВқ replied Cavalcanti, in a very modest tone.

ГўВҖВңAbove all, she is very rich,ГўВҖВ”at least, I believe so,ГўВҖВқ said Monte
Cristo.

ГўВҖВңVery rich, do you think?ГўВҖВқ replied the young man.

ГўВҖВңDoubtless; it is said M. Danglars conceals at least half of his
fortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd he acknowledges fifteen or twenty millions,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea with a
look sparkling with joy.

ГўВҖВңWithout reckoning,ГўВҖВқ added Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat he is on the eve of
entering into a sort of speculation already in vogue in the United
States and in England, but quite novel in France.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, I know what you mean,ГўВҖВ”the railway, of which he has obtained
the grant, is it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrecisely; it is generally believed he will gain ten millions by that
affair.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTen millions! Do you think so? It is magnificent!ГўВҖВқ said Cavalcanti,
who was quite confounded at the metallic sound of these golden words.

ГўВҖВңWithout reckoning,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңthat all his fortune will
come to you, and justly too, since Mademoiselle Danglars is an only
daughter. Besides, your own fortune, as your father assured me, is
almost equal to that of your betrothed. But enough of money matters. Do
you know, M. Andrea, I think you have managed this affair rather
skilfully?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot badly, by any means,ГўВҖВқ said the young man; ГўВҖВңI was born for a
diplomatist.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you must become a diplomatist; diplomacy, you know, is something
that is not to be acquired; it is instinctive. Have you lost your
heart?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, I fear it,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea, in the tone in which he had heard
Dorante or ValГғВЁre reply to Alceste21 at the ThГғВ©ГғВўtre FranГғВ§ais.

ГўВҖВңIs your love returned?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI suppose so,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea with a triumphant smile, ГўВҖВңsince I am
accepted. But I must not forget one grand point.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat I have been singularly assisted.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNonsense.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have, indeed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy circumstances?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; by you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy me? Not at all, prince,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo laying a marked stress
on the title, ГўВҖВңwhat have I done for you? Are not your name, your social
position, and your merit sufficient?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңno; it is useless for you to say so, count. I
maintain that the position of a man like you has done more than my
name, my social position, and my merit.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are completely mistaken, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo coldly, who felt
the perfidious manГ…В“uvre of the young man, and understood the bearing of
his words; ГўВҖВңyou only acquired my protection after the influence and
fortune of your father had been ascertained; for, after all, who
procured for me, who had never seen either you or your illustrious
father, the pleasure of your acquaintance?ГўВҖВ”two of my good friends, Lord
Wilmore and the AbbГғВ© Busoni. What encouraged me not to become your
surety, but to patronize you?ГўВҖВ”your fatherГўВҖВҷs name, so well known in
Italy and so highly honored. Personally, I do not know you.ГўВҖВқ

This calm tone and perfect ease made Andrea feel that he was, for the
moment, restrained by a more muscular hand than his own, and that the
restraint could not be easily broken through.

ГўВҖВңOh, then my father has really a very large fortune, count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt appears so, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңDo you know if the marriage settlement he promised me has come?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have been advised of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the three millions?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe three millions are probably on the road.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I shall really have them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, well,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI do not think you have yet known the want
of money.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea was so surprised that he pondered the matter for a moment. Then,
arousing from his reverie:

ГўВҖВңNow, sir, I have one request to make to you, which you will
understand, even if it should be disagreeable to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProceed,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңI have formed an acquaintance, thanks to my good fortune, with many
noted persons, and have, at least for the moment, a crowd of friends.
But marrying, as I am about to do, before all Paris, I ought to be
supported by an illustrious name, and in the absence of the paternal
hand some powerful one ought to lead me to the altar; now, my father is
not coming to Paris, is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is old, covered with wounds, and suffers dreadfully, he says, in
travelling.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI understand; well, I am come to ask a favor of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd pray what may it be?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, to take his part.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, my dear sir! What?ГўВҖВ”after the varied relations I have had the
happiness to sustain towards you, can it be that you know me so little
as to ask such a thing? Ask me to lend you half a million and, although
such a loan is somewhat rare, on my honor, you would annoy me less!
Know, then, what I thought I had already told you, that in
participation in this worldГўВҖВҷs affairs, more especially in their moral
aspects, the Count of Monte Cristo has never ceased to entertain the
scruples and even the superstitions of the East. I, who have a seraglio
at Cairo, one at Smyrna, and one at Constantinople, preside at a
wedding?ГўВҖВ”never!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you refuse me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDecidedly; and were you my son or my brother I would refuse you in the
same way.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what must be done?ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, disappointed.

ГўВҖВңYou said just now that you had a hundred friends.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery true, but you introduced me at M. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all! Let us recall the exact facts. You met him at a dinner
party at my house, and you introduced yourself at his house; that is a
totally different affair.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but, by my marriage, you have forwarded that.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВ”not in the least, I beg you to believe. Recollect what I told you
when you asked me to propose you. ГўВҖВҳOh, I never make matches, my dear
prince, it is my settled principle.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ Andrea bit his lips.

50025m



ГўВҖВңBut, at least, you will be there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill all Paris be there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, certainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, like all Paris, I shall be there too,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңAnd will you sign the contract?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI see no objection to that; my scruples do not go thus far.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, since you will grant me no more, I must be content with what you
give me. But one word more, count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAdvice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe careful; advice is worse than a service.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you can give me this without compromising yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me what it is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs my wifeГўВҖВҷs fortune five hundred thousand livres?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is the sum M. Danglars himself announced.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMust I receive it, or leave it in the hands of the notary?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is the way such affairs are generally arranged when it is wished
to do them stylishly: Your two solicitors appoint a meeting, when the
contract is signed, for the next or the following day; then they
exchange the two portions, for which they each give a receipt; then,
when the marriage is celebrated, they place the amount at your disposal
as the chief member of the alliance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, with a certain ill-concealed uneasiness, ГўВҖВңI
thought I heard my father-in-law say that he intended embarking our
property in that famous railway affair of which you spoke just now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңit will be the way, everybody says, of
trebling your fortune in twelve months. Baron Danglars is a good
father, and knows how to calculate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn that case,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңeverything is all right, excepting your
refusal, which quite grieves me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must attribute it only to natural scruples under similar
circumstances.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңlet it be as you wish. This evening, then, at
nine oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAdieu till then.ГўВҖВқ

Notwithstanding a slight resistance on the part of Monte Cristo, whose
lips turned pale, but who preserved his ceremonious smile, Andrea
seized the countГўВҖВҷs hand, pressed it, jumped into his phaeton, and
disappeared.

The four or five remaining hours before nine oГўВҖВҷclock arrived, Andrea
employed in riding, paying visits,ГўВҖВ”designed to induce those of whom he
had spoken to appear at the bankerГўВҖВҷs in their gayest
equipages,ГўВҖВ”dazzling them by promises of shares in schemes which have
since turned every brain, and in which Danglars was just taking the
initiative.

In fact, at half-past eight in the evening the grand salon, the gallery
adjoining, and the three other drawing-rooms on the same floor, were
filled with a perfumed crowd, who sympathized but little in the event,
but who all participated in that love of being present wherever there
is anything fresh to be seen. An Academician would say that the
entertainments of the fashionable world are collections of flowers
which attract inconstant butterflies, famished bees, and buzzing
drones.

50025m



No one could deny that the rooms were splendidly illuminated; the light
streamed forth on the gilt mouldings and the silk hangings; and all the
bad taste of decorations, which had only their richness to boast of,
shone in its splendor. Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie was dressed with elegant
simplicity in a figured white silk dress, and a white rose half
concealed in her jet black hair was her only ornament, unaccompanied by
a single jewel. Her eyes, however, betrayed that perfect confidence
which contradicted the girlish simplicity of this modest attire.

Madame Danglars was chatting at a short distance with Debray,
Beauchamp, and ChГғВўteau-Renaud. Debray was admitted to the house for
this grand ceremony, but on the same plane with everyone else, and
without any particular privilege. M. Danglars, surrounded by deputies
and men connected with the revenue, was explaining a new theory of
taxation which he intended to adopt when the course of events had
compelled the government to call him into the ministry. Andrea, on
whose arm hung one of the most consummate dandies of the Opera, was
explaining to him rather cleverly, since he was obliged to be bold to
appear at ease, his future projects, and the new luxuries he meant to
introduce to Parisian fashions with his hundred and seventy-five
thousand livres per annum.

The crowd moved to and fro in the rooms like an ebb and flow of
turquoises, rubies, emeralds, opals, and diamonds. As usual, the oldest
women were the most decorated, and the ugliest the most conspicuous. If
there was a beautiful lily, or a sweet rose, you had to search for it,
concealed in some corner behind a mother with a turban, or an aunt with
a bird-of-paradise.

At each moment, in the midst of the crowd, the buzzing, and the
laughter, the door-keeperГўВҖВҷs voice was heard announcing some name well
known in the financial department, respected in the army, or
illustrious in the literary world, and which was acknowledged by a
slight movement in the different groups. But for one whose privilege it
was to agitate that ocean of human waves, how many were received with a
look of indifference or a sneer of disdain!

At the moment when the hand of the massive time-piece, representing
Endymion asleep, pointed to nine on its golden face, and the hammer,
the faithful type of mechanical thought, struck nine times, the name of
the Count of Monte Cristo resounded in its turn, and as if by an
electric shock all the assembly turned towards the door. The count was
dressed in black and with his habitual simplicity; his white waistcoat
displayed his expansive noble chest and his black stock was singularly
noticeable because of its contrast with the deadly paleness of his
face. His only jewellery was a chain, so fine that the slender gold
thread was scarcely perceptible on his white waistcoat.

A circle was immediately formed around the door. The count perceived at
one glance Madame Danglars at one end of the drawing-room, M. Danglars
at the other, and EugГғВ©nie in front of him. He first advanced towards
the baroness, who was chatting with Madame de Villefort, who had come
alone, Valentine being still an invalid; and without turning aside, so
clear was the road left for him, he passed from the baroness to
EugГғВ©nie, whom he complimented in such rapid and measured terms, that
the proud artist was quite struck. Near her was Mademoiselle Louise
dГўВҖВҷArmilly, who thanked the count for the letters of introduction he had
so kindly given her for Italy, which she intended immediately to make
use of. On leaving these ladies he found himself with Danglars, who had
advanced to meet him.

Having accomplished these three social duties, Monte Cristo stopped,
looking around him with that expression peculiar to a certain class,
which seems to say, ГўВҖВңI have done my duty, now let others do theirs.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea, who was in an adjoining room, had shared in the sensation
caused by the arrival of Monte Cristo, and now came forward to pay his
respects to the count. He found him completely surrounded; all were
eager to speak to him, as is always the case with those whose words are
few and weighty. The solicitors arrived at this moment and arranged
their scrawled papers on the velvet cloth embroidered with gold which
covered the table prepared for the signature; it was a gilt table
supported on lionsГўВҖВҷ claws. One of the notaries sat down, the other
remained standing. They were about to proceed to the reading of the
contract, which half Paris assembled was to sign. All took their
places, or rather the ladies formed a circle, while the gentlemen (more
indifferent to the restraints of what Boileau calls the _style
ГғВ©nergique_) commented on the feverish agitation of Andrea, on M.
DanglarsГўВҖВҷ riveted attention, EugГғВ©nieГўВҖВҷs composure, and the light and
sprightly manner in which the baroness treated this important affair.

The contract was read during a profound silence. But as soon as it was
finished, the buzz was redoubled through all the drawing-rooms; the
brilliant sums, the rolling millions which were to be at the command of
the two young people, and which crowned the display of the wedding
presents and the young ladyГўВҖВҷs diamonds, which had been made in a room
entirely appropriated for that purpose, had exercised to the full their
delusions over the envious assembly.

Mademoiselle DanglarsГўВҖВҷ charms were heightened in the opinion of the
young men, and for the moment seemed to outvie the sun in splendor. As
for the ladies, it is needless to say that while they coveted the
millions, they thought they did not need them for themselves, as they
were beautiful enough without them. Andrea, surrounded by his friends,
complimented, flattered, beginning to believe in the reality of his
dream, was almost bewildered. The notary solemnly took the pen,
flourished it above his head, and said:

ГўВҖВңGentlemen, we are about to sign the contract.ГўВҖВқ

The baron was to sign first, then the representative of M. Cavalcanti,
senior, then the baroness, afterwards the ГўВҖВңfuture couple,ГўВҖВқ as they are
styled in the abominable phraseology of legal documents.

The baron took the pen and signed, then the representative. The
baroness approached, leaning on Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs arm.

ГўВҖВңMy dear,ГўВҖВқ said she, as she took the pen, ГўВҖВңis it not vexatious? An
unexpected incident, in the affair of murder and theft at the Count of
Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs, in which he nearly fell a victim, deprives us of the
pleasure of seeing M. de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed?ГўВҖВқ said M. Danglars, in the same tone in which he would have
said, ГўВҖВңOh, well, what do I care?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs a matter of fact,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, approaching, ГўВҖВңI am much
afraid that I am the involuntary cause of his absence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, you, count?ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars, signing; ГўВҖВңif you are, take
care, for I shall never forgive you.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea pricked up his ears.

ГўВҖВңBut it is not my fault, as I shall endeavor to prove.ГўВҖВқ

Everyone listened eagerly; Monte Cristo who so rarely opened his lips,
was about to speak.

ГўВҖВңYou remember,ГўВҖВқ said the count, during the most profound silence, ГўВҖВңthat
the unhappy wretch who came to rob me died at my house; the supposition
is that he was stabbed by his accomplice, on attempting to leave it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңIn order that his wounds might be examined he was undressed, and his
clothes were thrown into a corner, where the police picked them up,
with the exception of the waistcoat, which they overlooked.ГўВҖВқ

Andrea turned pale, and drew towards the door; he saw a cloud rising in
the horizon, which appeared to forebode a coming storm.

ГўВҖВңWell, this waistcoat was discovered today, covered with blood, and
with a hole over the heart.ГўВҖВқ The ladies screamed, and two or three
prepared to faint. ГўВҖВңIt was brought to me. No one could guess what the
dirty rag could be; I alone suspected that it was the waistcoat of the
murdered man. My valet, in examining this mournful relic, felt a paper
in the pocket and drew it out; it was a letter addressed to you,
baron.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo me?ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars.

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed, to you; I succeeded in deciphering your name under the
blood with which the letter was stained,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, amid
the general outburst of amazement.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ asked Madame Danglars, looking at her husband with uneasiness,
ГўВҖВңhow could that prevent M. de VillefortГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn this simple way, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңthe waistcoat and
the letter were both what is termed circumstantial evidence; I
therefore sent them to the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney. You understand, my dear
baron, that legal methods are the safest in criminal cases; it was,
perhaps, some plot against you.ГўВҖВқ Andrea looked steadily at Monte Cristo
and disappeared in the second drawing-room.

ГўВҖВңPossibly,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңwas not this murdered man an old
galley-slave?ГўВҖВқ

50025m



ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the count; ГўВҖВңa felon named Caderousse.ГўВҖВқ Danglars turned
slightly pale; Andrea reached the anteroom beyond the little
drawing-room.

ГўВҖВңBut go on signing,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI perceive that my story has
caused a general emotion, and I beg to apologize to you, baroness, and
to Mademoiselle Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

The baroness, who had signed, returned the pen to the notary.

ГўВҖВңPrince Cavalcanti,ГўВҖВқ said the latter; ГўВҖВңPrince Cavalcanti, where are
you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAndrea, Andrea,ГўВҖВқ repeated several young people, who were already on
sufficiently intimate terms with him to call him by his Christian name.

ГўВҖВңCall the prince; inform him that it is his turn to sign,ГўВҖВқ cried
Danglars to one of the floorkeepers.

But at the same instant the crowd of guests rushed in alarm into the
principal salon as if some frightful monster had entered the
apartments, _quГғВҰrens quem devoret_. There was, indeed, reason to
retreat, to be alarmed, and to scream. An officer was placing two
soldiers at the door of each drawing-room, and was advancing towards
Danglars, preceded by a commissary of police, girded with his scarf.
Madame Danglars uttered a scream and fainted. Danglars, who thought
himself threatened (certain consciences are never calm),ГўВҖВ”Danglars even
before his guests showed a countenance of abject terror.

ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo, advancing to meet the
commissioner.

ГўВҖВңWhich of you gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ asked the magistrate, without replying to the
count, ГўВҖВңanswers to the name of Andrea Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ

A cry of astonishment was heard from all parts of the room. They
searched; they questioned.

ГўВҖВңBut who then is Andrea Cavalcanti?ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars in amazement.

ГўВҖВңA galley-slave, escaped from confinement at Toulon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what crime has he committed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is accused,ГўВҖВқ said the commissary with his inflexible voice, ГўВҖВңof
having assassinated the man named Caderousse, his former companion in
prison, at the moment he was making his escape from the house of the
Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo cast a rapid glance around him. Andrea was gone.



 Chapter 97. The Departure for Belgium

A few minutes after the scene of confusion produced in the salons of M.
Danglars by the unexpected appearance of the brigade of soldiers, and
by the disclosure which had followed, the mansion was deserted with as
much rapidity as if a case of plague or of cholera morbus had broken
out among the guests.

In a few minutes, through all the doors, down all the staircases, by
every exit, everyone hastened to retire, or rather to fly; for it was a
situation where the ordinary condolences,ГўВҖВ”which even the best friends
are so eager to offer in great catastrophes,ГўВҖВ”were seen to be utterly
futile. There remained in the bankerГўВҖВҷs house only Danglars, closeted in
his study, and making his statement to the officer of gendarmes; Madame
Danglars, terrified, in the boudoir with which we are acquainted; and
EugГғВ©nie, who with haughty air and disdainful lip had retired to her
room with her inseparable companion, Mademoiselle Louise dГўВҖВҷArmilly.

As for the numerous servants (more numerous that evening than usual,
for their number was augmented by cooks and butlers from the CafГғВ© de
Paris), venting on their employers their anger at what they termed the
insult to which they had been subjected, they collected in groups in
the hall, in the kitchens, or in their rooms, thinking very little of
their duty, which was thus naturally interrupted. Of all this
household, only two persons deserve our notice; these are Mademoiselle
EugГғВ©nie Danglars and Mademoiselle Louise dГўВҖВҷArmilly.

The betrothed had retired, as we said, with haughty air, disdainful
lip, and the demeanor of an outraged queen, followed by her companion,
who was paler and more disturbed than herself. On reaching her room
EugГғВ©nie locked her door, while Louise fell on a chair.

ГўВҖВңAh, what a dreadful thing,ГўВҖВқ said the young musician; ГўВҖВңwho would have
suspected it? M. Andrea Cavalcanti a murdererГўВҖВ”a galley-slave escapedГўВҖВ”a
convict!ГўВҖВқ

An ironical smile curled the lip of EugГғВ©nie. ГўВҖВңIn truth, I was fated,ГўВҖВқ
said she. ГўВҖВңI escaped the Morcerf only to fall into the Cavalcanti.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, do not confound the two, EugГғВ©nie.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHold your tongue! The men are all infamous, and I am happy to be able
now to do more than detest themГўВҖВ”I despise them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat shall we do?ГўВҖВқ asked Louise.

ГўВҖВңWhat shall we do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, the same we had intended doing three days sinceГўВҖВ”set off.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВ”although you are not now going to be married, you intend
stillГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen, Louise. I hate this life of the fashionable world, always
ordered, measured, ruled, like our music-paper. What I have always
wished for, desired, and coveted, is the life of an artist, free and
independent, relying only on my own resources, and accountable only to
myself. Remain here? What for?ГўВҖВ”that they may try, a month hence, to
marry me again; and to whom?ГўВҖВ”M. Debray, perhaps, as it was once
proposed. No, Louise, no! This eveningГўВҖВҷs adventure will serve for my
excuse. I did not seek one, I did not ask for one. God sends me this,
and I hail it joyfully!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow strong and courageous you are!ГўВҖВқ said the fair, frail girl to her
brunette companion.

ГўВҖВңDid you not yet know me? Come, Louise, let us talk of our affairs. The
post-chaiseГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWas happily bought three days since.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you had it sent where we are to go for it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOur passport?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere it is.ГўВҖВқ

And EugГғВ©nie, with her usual precision, opened a printed paper, and
read:

ГўВҖВңM. LГғВ©on dГўВҖВҷArmilly, twenty years of age; profession, artist; hair
black, eyes black; travelling with his sister.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCapital! How did you get this passport?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen I went to ask M. de Monte Cristo for letters to the directors of
the theatres at Rome and Naples, I expressed my fears of travelling as
a woman; he perfectly understood them, and undertook to procure for me
a manГўВҖВҷs passport, and two days after I received this, to which I have
added with my own hand, ГўВҖВҳtravelling with his sister.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

50035m



ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie cheerfully, ГўВҖВңwe have then only to pack up our
trunks; we shall start the evening of the signing of the contract,
instead of the evening of the weddingГўВҖВ”that is all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut consider the matter seriously, EugГғВ©nie!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I am done with considering! I am tired of hearing only of market
reports, of the end of the month, of the rise and fall of Spanish
funds, of Haitian bonds. Instead of that, LouiseГўВҖВ”do you
understand?ГўВҖВ”air, liberty, melody of birds, plains of Lombardy, Venetian
canals, Roman palaces, the Bay of Naples. How much have we, Louise?ГўВҖВқ

The young girl to whom this question was addressed drew from an inlaid
secretaire a small portfolio with a lock, in which she counted
twenty-three bank-notes.

ГўВҖВңTwenty-three thousand francs,ГўВҖВқ said she.

ГўВҖВңAnd as much, at least, in pearls, diamonds, and jewels,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie.
ГўВҖВңWe are rich. With forty-five thousand francs we can live like
princesses for two years, and comfortably for four; but before six
monthsГўВҖВ”you with your music, and I with my voiceГўВҖВ”we shall double our
capital. Come, you shall take charge of the money, I of the jewel-box;
so that if one of us had the misfortune to lose her treasure, the other
would still have hers left. Now, the portmanteauГўВҖВ”let us make hasteГўВҖВ”the
portmanteau!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStop!ГўВҖВқ said Louise, going to listen at Madame DanglarsГўВҖВҷ door.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you fear?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat we may be discovered.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe door is locked.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey may tell us to open it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey may if they like, but we will not.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are a perfect Amazon, EugГғВ©nie!ГўВҖВқ And the two young girls began to
heap into a trunk all the things they thought they should require.

ГўВҖВңThere now,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie, ГўВҖВңwhile I change my costume do you lock the
portmanteau.ГўВҖВқ Louise pressed with all the strength of her little hands
on the top of the portmanteau.

ГўВҖВңBut I cannot,ГўВҖВқ said she; ГўВҖВңI am not strong enough; do you shut it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you do well to ask,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie, laughing; ГўВҖВңI forgot that I was
Hercules, and you only the pale Omphale!ГўВҖВқ

And the young girl, kneeling on the top, pressed the two parts of the
portmanteau together, and Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly passed the bolt of the
padlock through. When this was done, EugГғВ©nie opened a drawer, of which
she kept the key, and took from it a wadded violet silk travelling
cloak.

ГўВҖВңHere,ГўВҖВқ said she, ГўВҖВңyou see I have thought of everything; with this
cloak you will not be cold.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I am never cold, you know! Besides, with these menГўВҖВҷs clothesГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you dress here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShall you have time?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not be uneasy, you little coward! All our servants are busy,
discussing the grand affair. Besides, what is there astonishing, when
you think of the grief I ought to be in, that I shut myself up?ГўВҖВ”tell
me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, trulyГўВҖВ”you comfort me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome and help me.ГўВҖВқ

From the same drawer she took a manГўВҖВҷs complete costume, from the boots
to the coat, and a provision of linen, where there was nothing
superfluous, but every requisite. Then, with a promptitude which
indicated that this was not the first time she had amused herself by
adopting the garb of the opposite sex, EugГғВ©nie drew on the boots and
pantaloons, tied her cravat, buttoned her waistcoat up to the throat,
and put on a coat which admirably fitted her beautiful figure.

ГўВҖВңOh, that is very goodГўВҖВ”indeed, it is very good!ГўВҖВқ said Louise, looking
at her with admiration; ГўВҖВңbut that beautiful black hair, those
magnificent braids, which made all the ladies sigh with envy,ГўВҖВ”will they
go under a manГўВҖВҷs hat like the one I see down there?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou shall see,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie. And with her left hand seizing the thick
mass, which her long fingers could scarcely grasp, she took in her
right hand a pair of long scissors, and soon the steel met through the
rich and splendid hair, which fell in a cluster at her feet as she
leaned back to keep it from her coat. Then she grasped the front hair,
which she also cut off, without expressing the least regret; on the
contrary, her eyes sparkled with greater pleasure than usual under her
ebony eyebrows.

50039m



ГўВҖВңOh, the magnificent hair!ГўВҖВқ said Louise, with regret.

ГўВҖВңAnd am I not a hundred times better thus?ГўВҖВқ cried EugГғВ©nie, smoothing
the scattered curls of her hair, which had now quite a masculine
appearance; ГўВҖВңand do you not think me handsomer so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you are beautifulГўВҖВ”always beautiful!ГўВҖВқ cried Louise. ГўВҖВңNow, where are
you going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Brussels, if you like; it is the nearest frontier. We can go to
Brussels, LiГғВЁge, Aix-la-Chapelle; then up the Rhine to Strasbourg. We
will cross Switzerland, and go down into Italy by the Saint-Gothard.
Will that do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat are you looking at?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am looking at you; indeed you are adorable like that! One would say
you were carrying me off.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd they would be right, _pardieu!_ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I think you swore, EugГғВ©nie.ГўВҖВқ

And the two young girls, whom everyone might have thought plunged in
grief, the one on her own account, the other from interest in her
friend, burst out laughing, as they cleared away every visible trace of
the disorder which had naturally accompanied the preparations for their
escape. Then, having blown out the lights, the two fugitives, looking
and listening eagerly, with outstretched necks, opened the door of a
dressing-room which led by a side staircase down to the yard,ГўВҖВ”EugГғВ©nie
going first, and holding with one arm the portmanteau, which by the
opposite handle Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly scarcely raised with both hands.
The yard was empty; the clock was striking twelve. The porter was not
yet gone to bed. EugГғВ©nie approached softly, and saw the old man
sleeping soundly in an armchair in his lodge. She returned to Louise,
took up the portmanteau, which she had placed for a moment on the
ground, and they reached the archway under the shadow of the wall.

EugГғВ©nie concealed Louise in an angle of the gateway, so that if the
porter chanced to awake he might see but one person. Then placing
herself in the full light of the lamp which lit the yard:

ГўВҖВңGate!ГўВҖВқ cried she, with her finest contralto voice, and rapping at the
window.

The porter got up as EugГғВ©nie expected, and even advanced some steps to
recognize the person who was going out, but seeing a young man striking
his boot impatiently with his riding-whip, he opened it immediately.
Louise slid through the half-open gate like a snake, and bounded
lightly forward. EugГғВ©nie, apparently calm, although in all probability
her heart beat somewhat faster than usual, went out in her turn.

A porter was passing and they gave him the portmanteau; then the two
young girls, having told him to take it to No. 36, Rue de la Victoire,
walked behind this man, whose presence comforted Louise. As for
EugГғВ©nie, she was as strong as a Judith or a Delilah. They arrived at
the appointed spot. EugГғВ©nie ordered the porter to put down the
portmanteau, gave him some pieces of money, and having rapped at the
shutter sent him away. The shutter where EugГғВ©nie had rapped was that of
a little laundress, who had been previously warned, and was not yet
gone to bed. She opened the door.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie, ГўВҖВңlet the porter get the post-chaise from
the coach-house, and fetch some post-horses from the hotel. Here are
five francs for his trouble.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ said Louise, ГўВҖВңI admire you, and I could almost say respect
you.ГўВҖВқ The laundress looked on in astonishment, but as she had been
promised twenty louis, she made no remark.

In a quarter of an hour the porter returned with a post-boy and horses,
which were harnessed, and put in the post-chaise in a minute, while the
porter fastened the portmanteau on with the assistance of a cord and
strap.

ГўВҖВңHere is the passport,ГўВҖВқ said the postilion, ГўВҖВңwhich way are we going,
young gentleman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Fontainebleau,ГўВҖВқ replied EugГғВ©nie with an almost masculine voice.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you say?ГўВҖВқ said Louise.

ГўВҖВңI am giving them the slip,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie; ГўВҖВңthis woman to whom we have
given twenty louis may betray us for forty; we will soon alter our
direction.ГўВҖВқ

And the young girl jumped into the britzka, which was admirably
arranged for sleeping in, without scarcely touching the step.

ГўВҖВңYou are always right,ГўВҖВқ said the music teacher, seating herself by the
side of her friend.

A quarter of an hour afterwards the postilion, having been put in the
right road, passed with a crack of his whip through the gateway of the
BarriГғВЁre Saint-Martin.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Louise, breathing freely, ГўВҖВңhere we are out of Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, my dear, the abduction is an accomplished fact,ГўВҖВқ replied EugГғВ©nie.

ГўВҖВңYes, and without violence,ГўВҖВқ said Louise.

ГўВҖВңI shall bring that forward as an extenuating circumstance,ГўВҖВқ replied
EugГғВ©nie.

These words were lost in the noise which the carriage made in rolling
over the pavement of La Villette. M. Danglars no longer had a daughter.



 Chapter 98. The Bell and Bottle Tavern

And now let us leave Mademoiselle Danglars and her friend pursuing
their way to Brussels, and return to poor Andrea Cavalcanti, so
inopportunely interrupted in his rise to fortune. Notwithstanding his
youth, Master Andrea was a very skilful and intelligent boy. We have
seen that on the first rumor which reached the salon he had gradually
approached the door, and crossing two or three rooms at last
disappeared. But we have forgotten to mention one circumstance, which
nevertheless ought not to be omitted; in one of the rooms he crossed,
the _trousseau_ of the bride-elect was on exhibition. There were
caskets of diamonds, cashmere shawls, Valenciennes lace, English veils,
and in fact all the tempting things, the bare mention of which makes
the hearts of young girls bound with joy, and which is called the
_corbeille_.22 Now, in passing through this room, Andrea proved himself
not only to be clever and intelligent, but also provident, for he
helped himself to the most valuable of the ornaments before him.

Furnished with this plunder, Andrea leaped with a lighter heart from
the window, intending to slip through the hands of the gendarmes. Tall
and well proportioned as an ancient gladiator, and muscular as a
Spartan, he walked for a quarter of an hour without knowing where to
direct his steps, actuated by the sole idea of getting away from the
spot where if he lingered he knew that he would surely be taken. Having
passed through the Rue du Mont-Blanc, guided by the instinct which
leads thieves always to take the safest path, he found himself at the
end of the Rue La Fayette. There he stopped, breathless and panting. He
was quite alone; on one side was the vast wilderness of the
Saint-Lazare, on the other, Paris enshrouded in darkness.

ГўВҖВңAm I to be captured?ГўВҖВқ he cried; ГўВҖВңno, not if I can use more activity
than my enemies. My safety is now a mere question of speed.ГўВҖВқ

At this moment he saw a cab at the top of the Faubourg PoissonniГғВЁre.
The dull driver, smoking his pipe, was plodding along toward the limits
of the Faubourg Saint-Denis, where no doubt he ordinarily had his
station.

ГўВҖВңHo, friend!ГўВҖВқ said Benedetto.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you want, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked the driver.

ГўВҖВңIs your horse tired?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTired? oh, yes, tired enoughГўВҖВ”he has done nothing the whole of this
blessed day! Four wretched fares, and twenty sous over, making in all
seven francs, are all that I have earned, and I ought to take ten to
the owner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you add these twenty francs to the seven you have?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith pleasure, sir; twenty francs are not to be despised. Tell me what
I am to do for this.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA very easy thing, if your horse isnГўВҖВҷt tired.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI tell you heГўВҖВҷll go like the wind,ГўВҖВ”only tell me which way to drive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTowards the Louvres.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, I know the wayГўВҖВ”you get good sweetened rum over there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExactly so; I merely wish to overtake one of my friends, with whom I
am going to hunt tomorrow at Chapelle-en-Serval. He should have waited
for me here with a cabriolet till half-past eleven; it is twelve, and,
tired of waiting, he must have gone on.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is likely.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, will you try and overtake him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing I should like better.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf you do not overtake him before we reach Bourget you shall have
twenty francs; if not before Louvres, thirty.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd if we do overtake him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңForty,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, after a momentГўВҖВҷs hesitation, at the end of which
he remembered that he might safely promise.

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs all right,ГўВҖВқ said the man; ГўВҖВңhop in, and weГўВҖВҷre off! Who-o-o-pla!ГўВҖВқ

Andrea got into the cab, which passed rapidly through the Faubourg
Saint-Denis, along the Faubourg Saint-Martin, crossed the barrier, and
threaded its way through the interminable Villette. They never overtook
the chimerical friend, yet Andrea frequently inquired of people on foot
whom he passed and at the inns which were not yet closed, for a green
cabriolet and bay horse; and as there are a great many cabriolets to be
seen on the road to the Low Countries, and as nine-tenths of them are
green, the inquiries increased at every step. Everyone had just seen it
pass; it was only five hundred, two hundred, one hundred steps in
advance; at length they reached it, but it was not the friend. Once the
cab was also passed by a calash rapidly whirled along by two
post-horses.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Cavalcanti to himself, ГўВҖВңif I only had that britzka, those
two good post-horses, and above all the passport that carries them on!ГўВҖВқ
And he sighed deeply.

The calash contained Mademoiselle Danglars and Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly.

ГўВҖВңHurry, hurry!ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңwe must overtake him soon.ГўВҖВқ

And the poor horse resumed the desperate gallop it had kept up since
leaving the barrier, and arrived steaming at Louvres.

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңI shall not overtake my friend, but I shall
kill your horse, therefore I had better stop. Here are thirty francs; I
will sleep at the _Cheval Rouge_, and will secure a place in the first
coach. Good-night, friend.ГўВҖВқ

And Andrea, after placing six pieces of five francs each in the manГўВҖВҷs
hand, leaped lightly on to the pathway. The cabman joyfully pocketed
the sum, and turned back on his road to Paris. Andrea pretended to go
towards the hotel of the _Cheval Rouge_, but after leaning an instant
against the door, and hearing the last sound of the cab, which was
disappearing from view, he went on his road, and with a lusty stride
soon traversed the space of two leagues. Then he rested; he must be
near Chapelle-en-Serval, where he pretended to be going.

It was not fatigue that stayed Andrea here; it was that he might form
some resolution, adopt some plan. It would be impossible to make use of
a diligence, equally so to engage post-horses; to travel either way a
passport was necessary. It was still more impossible to remain in the
department of the Oise, one of the most open and strictly guarded in
France; this was quite out of the question, especially to a man like
Andrea, perfectly conversant with criminal matters.

He sat down by the side of the moat, buried his face in his hands and
reflected. Ten minutes after he raised his head; his resolution was
made. He threw some dust over the topcoat, which he had found time to
unhook from the antechamber and button over his ball costume, and going
to Chapelle-en-Serval he knocked loudly at the door of the only inn in
the place.

The host opened.

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңI was coming from Mortefontaine to Senlis,
when my horse, which is a troublesome creature, stumbled and threw me.
I must reach CompiГғВЁgne tonight, or I shall cause deep anxiety to my
family. Could you let me hire a horse of you?ГўВҖВқ

An innkeeper has always a horse to let, whether it be good or bad. The
host called the stable-boy, and ordered him to saddle _Le Blanc_ then
he awoke his son, a child of seven years, whom he ordered to ride
before the gentleman and bring back the horse. Andrea gave the
innkeeper twenty francs, and in taking them from his pocket dropped a
visiting card. This belonged to one of his friends at the CafГғВ© de
Paris, so that the innkeeper, picking it up after Andrea had left, was
convinced that he had let his horse to the Count of MaulГғВ©on, 25 Rue
Saint-Dominique, that being the name and address on the card.

_Le Blanc_ was not a fast animal, but he kept up an easy, steady pace;
in three hours and a half Andrea had traversed the nine leagues which
separated him from CompiГғВЁgne, and four oГўВҖВҷclock struck as he reached the
place where the coaches stop. There is an excellent tavern at
CompiГғВЁgne, well remembered by those who have ever been there. Andrea,
who had often stayed there in his rides about Paris, recollected the
Bell and Bottle inn; he turned around, saw the sign by the light of a
reflected lamp, and having dismissed the child, giving him all the
small coin he had about him, he began knocking at the door, very
reasonably concluding that having now three or four hours before him he
had best fortify himself against the fatigues of the morrow by a sound
sleep and a good supper. A waiter opened the door.

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңI have been dining at Saint-Jean-aux-Bois,
and expected to catch the coach which passes by at midnight, but like a
fool I have lost my way, and have been walking for the last four hours
in the forest. Show me into one of those pretty little rooms which
overlook the court, and bring me a cold fowl and a bottle of Bordeaux.ГўВҖВқ

The waiter had no suspicions; Andrea spoke with perfect composure, he
had a cigar in his mouth, and his hands in the pocket of his top coat;
his clothes were fashionably made, his chin smooth, his boots
irreproachable; he looked merely as if he had stayed out very late,
that was all. While the waiter was preparing his room, the hostess
arose; Andrea assumed his most charming smile, and asked if he could
have No. 3, which he had occupied on his last stay at CompiГғВЁgne.
Unfortunately, No. 3 was engaged by a young man who was travelling with
his sister. Andrea appeared in despair, but consoled himself when the
hostess assured him that No. 7, prepared for him, was situated
precisely the same as No. 3, and while warming his feet and chatting
about the last races at Chantilly, he waited until they announced his
room to be ready.

Andrea had not spoken without cause of the pretty rooms looking out
upon the court of the Bell Hotel, which with its triple galleries like
those of a theatre, with the jessamine and clematis twining round the
light columns, forms one of the prettiest entrances to an inn that you
can imagine. The fowl was tender, the wine old, the fire clear and
sparkling, and Andrea was surprised to find himself eating with as good
an appetite as though nothing had happened. Then he went to bed and
almost immediately fell into that deep sleep which is sure to visit men
of twenty years of age, even when they are torn with remorse. Now, here
we are obliged to own that Andrea ought to have felt remorse, but that
he did not.

This was the plan which had appealed to him to afford the best chance
of his security. Before daybreak he would awake, leave the inn after
rigorously paying his bill, and reaching the forest, he would, under
pretence of making studies in painting, test the hospitality of some
peasants, procure himself the dress of a woodcutter and a hatchet,
casting off the lionГўВҖВҷs skin to assume that of the woodman; then, with
his hands covered with dirt, his hair darkened by means of a leaden
comb, his complexion embrowned with a preparation for which one of his
old comrades had given him the recipe, he intended, by following the
wooded districts, to reach the nearest frontier, walking by night and
sleeping in the day in the forests and quarries, and only entering
inhabited regions to buy a loaf from time to time.

Once past the frontier, Andrea proposed making money of his diamonds;
and by uniting the proceeds to ten bank-notes he always carried about
with him in case of accident, he would then find himself possessor of
about 50,000 livres, which he philosophically considered as no very
deplorable condition after all. Moreover, he reckoned much on the
interest of the Danglars to hush up the rumor of their own
misadventures. These were the reasons which, added to the fatigue,
caused Andrea to sleep so soundly. In order that he might wake early he
did not close the shutters, but contented himself with bolting the door
and placing on the table an unclasped and long-pointed knife, whose
temper he well knew, and which was never absent from him.

About seven in the morning Andrea was awakened by a ray of sunlight,
which played, warm and brilliant, upon his face. In all well-organized
brains, the predominating ideaГўВҖВ”and there always is oneГўВҖВ”is sure to be
the last thought before sleeping, and the first upon waking in the
morning. Andrea had scarcely opened his eyes when his predominating
idea presented itself, and whispered in his ear that he had slept too
long. He jumped out of bed and ran to the window. A gendarme was
crossing the court. A gendarme is one of the most striking objects in
the world, even to a man void of uneasiness; but for one who has a
timid conscience, and with good cause too, the yellow, blue, and white
uniform is really very alarming.

ГўВҖВңWhy is that gendarme there?ГўВҖВқ asked Andrea of himself.

Then, all at once, he replied, with that logic which the reader has,
doubtless, remarked in him, ГўВҖВңThere is nothing astonishing in seeing a
gendarme at an inn; instead of being astonished, let me dress myself.ГўВҖВқ
And the youth dressed himself with a facility his valet de chambre had
failed to rob him of during the two months of fashionable life he had
led in Paris.

ГўВҖВңNow then,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, while dressing himself, ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷll wait till he
leaves, and then IГўВҖВҷll slip away.ГўВҖВқ

50047m



And, saying this, Andrea, who had now put on his boots and cravat,
stole gently to the window, and a second time lifted up the muslin
curtain. Not only was the first gendarme still there, but the young man
now perceived a second yellow, blue, and white uniform at the foot of
the staircase, the only one by which he could descend, while a third,
on horseback, holding a musket in his fist, was posted as a sentinel at
the great street-door which alone afforded the means of egress. The
appearance of the third gendarme settled the matter, for a crowd of
curious loungers was extended before him, effectually blocking the
entrance to the hotel.

ГўВҖВңTheyГўВҖВҷre after me!ГўВҖВқ was AndreaГўВҖВҷs first thought. ГўВҖВң_Diable!_ГўВҖВқ

A pallor overspread the young manГўВҖВҷs forehead, and he looked around him
with anxiety. His room, like all those on the same floor, had but one
outlet to the gallery in the sight of everybody. ГўВҖВңI am lost!ГўВҖВқ was his
second thought; and, indeed, for a man in AndreaГўВҖВҷs situation, an arrest
meant the assizes, trial, and death,ГўВҖВ”death without mercy or delay.

For a moment he convulsively pressed his head within his hands, and
during that brief period he became nearly mad with terror; but soon a
ray of hope glimmered in the multitude of thoughts which bewildered his
mind, and a faint smile played upon his white lips and pallid cheeks.
He looked around and saw the objects of his search upon the
chimney-piece; they were a pen, ink, and paper. With forced composure
he dipped the pen in the ink, and wrote the following lines upon a
sheet of paper:

ГўВҖВңI have no money to pay my bill, but I am not a dishonest man; I leave
behind me as a pledge this pin, worth ten times the amount. I shall be
excused for leaving at daybreak, for I was ashamed.ГўВҖВқ

He then drew the pin from his cravat and placed it on the paper. This
done, instead of leaving the door fastened, he drew back the bolts and
even placed the door ajar, as though he had left the room, forgetting
to close it, and slipping into the chimney like a man accustomed to
that kind of gymnastic exercise, after replacing the chimney-board,
which represented Achilles with Deidamia, and effacing the very marks
of his feet upon the ashes, he commenced climbing the hollow tunnel,
which afforded him the only means of escape left.

At this precise time, the first gendarme Andrea had noticed walked
upstairs, preceded by the commissary of police, and supported by the
second gendarme who guarded the staircase and was himself reinforced by
the one stationed at the door.

Andrea was indebted for this visit to the following circumstances. At
daybreak, the telegraphs were set at work in all directions, and almost
immediately the authorities in every district had exerted their utmost
endeavors to arrest the murderer of Caderousse. CompiГғВЁgne, that royal
residence and fortified town, is well furnished with authorities,
gendarmes, and commissaries of police; they therefore began operations
as soon as the telegraphic despatch arrived, and the Bell and Bottle
being the best-known hotel in the town, they had naturally directed
their first inquiries there.

Now, besides the reports of the sentinels guarding the HГғВҙtel de Ville,
which is next door to the Bell and Bottle, it had been stated by others
that a number of travellers had arrived during the night. The sentinel
who was relieved at six oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning, remembered perfectly
that, just as he was taking his post a few minutes past four, a young
man arrived on horseback, with a little boy before him. The young man,
having dismissed the boy and horse, knocked at the door of the hotel,
which was opened, and again closed after his entrance. This late
arrival had attracted much suspicion, and the young man being no other
than Andrea, the commissary and gendarme, who was a brigadier, directed
their steps towards his room. They found the door ajar.

ГўВҖВңOh, oh,ГўВҖВқ said the brigadier, who thoroughly understood the trick; ГўВҖВңa
bad sign to find the door open! I would rather find it triply bolted.ГўВҖВқ

And, indeed, the little note and pin upon the table confirmed, or
rather corroborated, the sad truth. Andrea had fled. We say
corroborated, because the brigadier was too experienced to be convinced
by a single proof. He glanced around, looked in the bed, shook the
curtains, opened the closets, and finally stopped at the chimney.
Andrea had taken the precaution to leave no traces of his feet in the
ashes, but still it was an outlet, and in this light was not to be
passed over without serious investigation.

The brigadier sent for some sticks and straw, and having filled the
chimney with them, set a light to it. The fire crackled, and the smoke
ascended like the dull vapor from a volcano; but still no prisoner fell
down, as they expected. The fact was, that Andrea, at war with society
ever since his youth, was quite as deep as a gendarme, even though he
were advanced to the rank of brigadier, and quite prepared for the
fire, he had climbed out on the roof and was crouching down against the
chimney-pots.

50049m



At one time he thought he was saved, for he heard the brigadier exclaim
in a loud voice, to the two gendarmes, ГўВҖВңHe is not here!ГўВҖВқ But venturing
to peep, he perceived that the latter, instead of retiring, as might
have been reasonably expected upon this announcement, were watching
with increased attention.

It was now his turn to look about him; the HГғВҙtel de Ville, a massive
sixteenth century building, was on his right; anyone could descend from
the openings in the tower, and examine every corner of the roof below,
and Andrea expected momentarily to see the head of a gendarme appear at
one of these openings. If once discovered, he knew he would be lost,
for the roof afforded no chance of escape; he therefore resolved to
descend, not through the same chimney by which he had come up, but by a
similar one conducting to another room.

He looked around for a chimney from which no smoke issued, and having
reached it, he disappeared through the orifice without being seen by
anyone. At the same minute, one of the little windows of the HГғВҙtel de
Ville was thrown open, and the head of a gendarme appeared. For an
instant it remained motionless as one of the stone decorations of the
building, then after a long sigh of disappointment the head
disappeared. The brigadier, calm and dignified as the law he
represented, passed through the crowd, without answering the thousand
questions addressed to him, and re-entered the hotel.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ asked the two gendarmes.

ГўВҖВңWell, my boys,ГўВҖВқ said the brigadier, ГўВҖВңthe brigand must really have
escaped early this morning; but we will send to the Villers-Coterets
and Noyon roads, and search the forest, when we shall catch him, no
doubt.ГўВҖВқ

The honorable functionary had scarcely expressed himself thus, in that
intonation which is peculiar to brigadiers of the gendarmerie, when a
loud scream, accompanied by the violent ringing of a bell, resounded
through the court of the hotel.

ГўВҖВңAh, what is that?ГўВҖВқ cried the brigadier.

ГўВҖВңSome traveller seems impatient,ГўВҖВқ said the host. ГўВҖВңWhat number was it
that rang?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNumber 3.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRun, waiter!ГўВҖВқ

At this moment the screams and ringing were redoubled.

ГўВҖВңAha!ГўВҖВқ said the brigadier, stopping the servant, ГўВҖВңthe person who is
ringing appears to want something more than a waiter; we will attend
upon him with a gendarme. Who occupies Number 3?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe little fellow who arrived last night in a post-chaise with his
sister, and who asked for an apartment with two beds.ГўВҖВқ

The bell here rang for the third time, with another shriek of anguish.

ГўВҖВңFollow me, Mr. Commissary!ГўВҖВқ said the brigadier; ГўВҖВңtread in my steps.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait an instant,ГўВҖВқ said the host; ГўВҖВңNumber 3 has two staircases,ГўВҖВ”inside
and outside.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood,ГўВҖВқ said the brigadier. ГўВҖВңI will take charge of the inside one. Are
the carbines loaded?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, brigadier.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, you guard the exterior, and if he attempts to fly, fire upon
him; he must be a great criminal, from what the telegraph says.ГўВҖВқ

The brigadier, followed by the commissary, disappeared by the inside
staircase, accompanied by the noise which his assertions respecting
Andrea had excited in the crowd.

This is what had happened: Andrea had very cleverly managed to descend
two-thirds of the chimney, but then his foot slipped, and
notwithstanding his endeavors, he came into the room with more speed
and noise than he intended. It would have signified little had the room
been empty, but unfortunately it was occupied. Two ladies, sleeping in
one bed, were awakened by the noise, and fixing their eyes upon the
spot whence the sound proceeded, they saw a man. One of these ladies,
the fair one, uttered those terrible shrieks which resounded through
the house, while the other, rushing to the bell-rope, rang with all her
strength. Andrea, as we can see, was surrounded by misfortune.

ГўВҖВңFor pityГўВҖВҷs sake,ГўВҖВқ he cried, pale and bewildered, without seeing whom
he was addressing,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңfor pityГўВҖВҷs sake do not call assistance! Save me!ГўВҖВ”I
will not harm you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAndrea, the murderer!ГўВҖВқ cried one of the ladies.

ГўВҖВңEugГғВ©nie! Mademoiselle Danglars!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Andrea, stupefied.

ГўВҖВңHelp, help!ГўВҖВқ cried Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly, taking the bell from her
companionГўВҖВҷs hand, and ringing it yet more violently.

ГўВҖВңSave me, I am pursued!ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, clasping his hands. ГўВҖВңFor pity,
for mercyГўВҖВҷs sake do not deliver me up!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is too late, they are coming,ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie.

ГўВҖВңWell, conceal me somewhere; you can say you were needlessly alarmed;
you can turn their suspicions and save my life!ГўВҖВқ

50053m



The two ladies, pressing closely to one another, and drawing the
bedclothes tightly around them, remained silent to this supplicating
voice, repugnance and fear taking possession of their minds.

ГўВҖВңWell, be it so,ГўВҖВқ at length said EugГғВ©nie; ГўВҖВңreturn by the same road you
came, and we will say nothing about you, unhappy wretch.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere he is, here he is!ГўВҖВқ cried a voice from the landing; ГўВҖВңhere he is!
I see him!ГўВҖВқ

The brigadier had put his eye to the keyhole, and had discovered Andrea
in a posture of entreaty. A violent blow from the butt end of the
musket burst open the lock, two more forced out the bolts, and the
broken door fell in. Andrea ran to the other door, leading to the
gallery, ready to rush out; but he was stopped short, and he stood with
his body a little thrown back, pale, and with the useless knife in his
clenched hand.

ГўВҖВңFly, then!ГўВҖВқ cried Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly, whose pity returned as her
fears diminished; ГўВҖВңfly!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOr kill yourself!ГўВҖВқ said EugГғВ©nie (in a tone which a Vestal in the
amphitheatre would have used, when urging the victorious gladiator to
finish his vanquished adversary). Andrea shuddered, and looked on the
young girl with an expression which proved how little he understood
such ferocious honor.

ГўВҖВңKill myself?ГўВҖВқ he cried, throwing down his knife; ГўВҖВңwhy should I do so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you said,ГўВҖВқ answered Mademoiselle Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat you would be
condemned to die like the worst criminals.ГўВҖВқ

50055m



ГўВҖВңBah,ГўВҖВқ said Cavalcanti, crossing his arms, ГўВҖВңone has friends.ГўВҖВқ

The brigadier advanced to him, sword in hand.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңsheathe your sword, my fine fellow; there
is no occasion to make such a fuss, since I give myself up;ГўВҖВқ and he
held out his hands to be manacled.

The two girls looked with horror upon this shameful metamorphosis, the
man of the world shaking off his covering and appearing as a
galley-slave. Andrea turned towards them, and with an impertinent smile
asked, ГўВҖВңHave you any message for your father, Mademoiselle Danglars,
for in all probability I shall return to Paris?ГўВҖВқ

EugГғВ©nie covered her face with her hands.

ГўВҖВңOh, oh!ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңyou need not be ashamed, even though you did
post after me. Was I not nearly your husband?ГўВҖВқ

50056m



And with this raillery Andrea went out, leaving the two girls a prey to
their own feelings of shame, and to the comments of the crowd. An hour
after they stepped into their calash, both dressed in feminine attire.
The gate of the hotel had been closed to screen them from sight, but
they were forced, when the door was open, to pass through a throng of
curious glances and whispering voices.

EugГғВ©nie closed her eyes; but though she could not see, she could hear,
and the sneers of the crowd reached her in the carriage.

ГўВҖВңOh, why is not the world a wilderness?ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, throwing
herself into the arms of Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly, her eyes sparkling
with the same kind of rage which made Nero wish that the Roman world
had but one neck, that he might sever it at a single blow.

The next day they stopped at the HГғВҙtel de Flandre, at Brussels. The
same evening Andrea was incarcerated in the Conciergerie.



 Chapter 99. The Law

We have seen how quietly Mademoiselle Danglars and Mademoiselle
dГўВҖВҷArmilly accomplished their transformation and flight; the fact being
that everyone was too much occupied in his or her own affairs to think
of theirs.

We will leave the banker contemplating the enormous magnitude of his
debt before the phantom of bankruptcy, and follow the baroness, who
after being momentarily crushed under the weight of the blow which had
struck her, had gone to seek her usual adviser, Lucien Debray. The
baroness had looked forward to this marriage as a means of ridding her
of a guardianship which, over a girl of EugГғВ©nieГўВҖВҷs character, could not
fail to be rather a troublesome undertaking; for in the tacit relations
which maintain the bond of family union, the mother, to maintain her
ascendancy over her daughter, must never fail to be a model of wisdom
and a type of perfection.

Now, Madame Danglars feared EugГғВ©nieГўВҖВҷs sagacity and the influence of
Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly; she had frequently observed the contemptuous
expression with which her daughter looked upon Debray,ГўВҖВ”an expression
which seemed to imply that she understood all her motherГўВҖВҷs amorous and
pecuniary relationships with the intimate secretary; moreover, she saw
that EugГғВ©nie detested Debray, not only because he was a source of
dissension and scandal under the paternal roof, but because she had at
once classed him in that catalogue of bipeds whom Plato endeavors to
withdraw from the appellation of men, and whom Diogenes designated as
animals upon two legs without feathers.

Unfortunately, in this world of ours, each person views things through
a certain medium, and so is prevented from seeing in the same light as
others, and Madame Danglars, therefore, very much regretted that the
marriage of EugГғВ©nie had not taken place, not only because the match was
good, and likely to insure the happiness of her child, but because it
would also set her at liberty. She ran therefore to Debray, who, after
having, like the rest of Paris, witnessed the contract scene and the
scandal attending it, had retired in haste to his club, where he was
chatting with some friends upon the events which served as a subject of
conversation for three-fourths of that city known as the capital of the
world.

At the precise time when Madame Danglars, dressed in black and
concealed in a long veil, was ascending the stairs leading to DebrayГўВҖВҷs
apartments, notwithstanding the assurances of the concierge that the
young man was not at home, Debray was occupied in repelling the
insinuations of a friend, who tried to persuade him that after the
terrible scene which had just taken place he ought, as a friend of the
family, to marry Mademoiselle Danglars and her two millions. Debray did
not defend himself very warmly, for the idea had sometimes crossed his
mind; still, when he recollected the independent, proud spirit of
EugГғВ©nie, he positively rejected it as utterly impossible, though the
same thought again continually recurred and found a resting-place in
his heart. Tea, play, and the conversation, which had become
interesting during the discussion of such serious affairs, lasted till
one oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning.

Meanwhile Madame Danglars, veiled and uneasy, awaited the return of
Debray in the little green room, seated between two baskets of flowers,
which she had that morning sent, and which, it must be confessed,
Debray had himself arranged and watered with so much care that his
absence was half excused in the eyes of the poor woman.

At twenty minutes to twelve, Madame Danglars, tired of waiting,
returned home. Women of a certain grade are like prosperous grisettes
in one respect, they seldom return home after twelve oГўВҖВҷclock. The
baroness returned to the hotel with as much caution as EugГғВ©nie used in
leaving it; she ran lightly upstairs, and with an aching heart entered
her apartment, contiguous, as we know, to that of EugГғВ©nie. She was
fearful of exciting any remark, and believed firmly in her daughterГўВҖВҷs
innocence and fidelity to the paternal roof. She listened at EugГғВ©nieГўВҖВҷs
door, and hearing no sound tried to enter, but the bolts were in place.
Madame Danglars then concluded that the young girl had been overcome
with the terrible excitement of the evening, and had gone to bed and to
sleep. She called the maid and questioned her.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle EugГғВ©nie,ГўВҖВқ said the maid, ГўВҖВңretired to her apartment with
Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly; they then took tea together, after which they
desired me to leave, saying that they needed me no longer.ГўВҖВқ

Since then the maid had been below, and like everyone else she thought
the young ladies were in their own room; Madame Danglars, therefore,
went to bed without a shadow of suspicion, and began to muse over the
recent events. In proportion as her memory became clearer, the
occurrences of the evening were revealed in their true light; what she
had taken for confusion was a tumult; what she had regarded as
something distressing, was in reality a disgrace. And then the baroness
remembered that she had felt no pity for poor MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, who had been
afflicted with as severe a blow through her husband and son.

ГўВҖВңEugГғВ©nie,ГўВҖВқ she said to herself, ГўВҖВңis lost, and so are we. The affair, as
it will be reported, will cover us with shame; for in a society such as
ours satire inflicts a painful and incurable wound. How fortunate that
EugГғВ©nie is possessed of that strange character which has so often made
me tremble!ГўВҖВқ

And her glance was turned towards heaven, where a mysterious Providence
disposes all things, and out of a fault, nay, even a vice, sometimes
produces a blessing. And then her thoughts, cleaving through space like
a bird in the air, rested on Cavalcanti. This Andrea was a wretch, a
robber, an assassin, and yet his manners showed the effects of a sort
of education, if not a complete one; he had been presented to the world
with the appearance of an immense fortune, supported by an honorable
name. How could she extricate herself from this labyrinth? To whom
would she apply to help her out of this painful situation? Debray, to
whom she had run, with the first instinct of a woman towards the man
she loves, and who yet betrays her,ГўВҖВ”Debray could but give her advice,
she must apply to someone more powerful than he.

The baroness then thought of M. de Villefort. It was M. de Villefort
who had remorselessly brought misfortune into her family, as though
they had been strangers. But, no; on reflection, the procureur was not
a merciless man; and it was not the magistrate, slave to his duties,
but the friend, the loyal friend, who roughly but firmly cut into the
very core of the corruption; it was not the executioner, but the
surgeon, who wished to withdraw the honor of Danglars from ignominious
association with the disgraced young man they had presented to the
world as their son-in-law. And since Villefort, the friend of Danglars,
had acted in this way, no one could suppose that he had been previously
acquainted with, or had lent himself to, any of AndreaГўВҖВҷs intrigues.
VillefortГўВҖВҷs conduct, therefore, upon reflection, appeared to the
baroness as if shaped for their mutual advantage. But the inflexibility
of the procureur should stop there; she would see him the next day, and
if she could not make him fail in his duties as a magistrate, she
would, at least, obtain all the indulgence he could allow. She would
invoke the past, recall old recollections; she would supplicate him by
the remembrance of guilty, yet happy days. M. de Villefort would stifle
the affair; he had only to turn his eyes on one side, and allow Andrea
to fly, and follow up the crime under that shadow of guilt called
contempt of court. And after this reasoning she slept easily.

At nine oГўВҖВҷclock next morning she arose, and without ringing for her
maid or giving the least sign of her activity, she dressed herself in
the same simple style as on the previous night; then running
downstairs, she left the hotel, walked to the Rue de Provence, called a
cab, and drove to M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs house.

For the last month this wretched house had presented the gloomy
appearance of a lazaretto infected with the plague. Some of the
apartments were closed within and without; the shutters were only
opened to admit a minuteГўВҖВҷs air, showing the scared face of a footman,
and immediately afterwards the window would be closed, like a
gravestone falling on a sepulchre, and the neighbors would say to each
other in a low voice, ГўВҖВңWill there be another funeral today at the
procureurГўВҖВҷs house?ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars involuntarily shuddered at the desolate aspect of the
mansion; descending from the cab, she approached the door with
trembling knees, and rang the bell. Three times did the bell ring with
a dull, heavy sound, seeming to participate, in the general sadness,
before the concierge appeared and peeped through the door, which he
opened just wide enough to allow his words to be heard. He saw a lady,
a fashionable, elegantly dressed lady, and yet the door remained almost
closed.

ГўВҖВңDo you intend opening the door?ГўВҖВқ said the baroness.

ГўВҖВңFirst, madame, who are you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho am I? You know me well enough.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe no longer know anyone, madame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must be mad, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness.

ГўВҖВңWhere do you come from?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, this is too much!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame, these are my orders; excuse me. Your name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe baroness Danglars; you have seen me twenty times.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPossibly, madame. And now, what do you want?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, how extraordinary! I shall complain to M. de Villefort of the
impertinence of his servants.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame, this is precaution, not impertinence; no one enters here
without an order from M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, or without speaking to the
procureur.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I have business with the procureur.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it pressing business?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou can imagine so, since I have not even brought my carriage out yet.
But enough of thisГўВҖВ”here is my card, take it to your master.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame will await my return?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; go.ГўВҖВқ

The concierge closed the door, leaving Madame Danglars in the street.
She had not long to wait; directly afterwards the door was opened wide
enough to admit her, and when she had passed through, it was again
shut. Without losing sight of her for an instant, the concierge took a
whistle from his pocket as soon as they entered the court, and blew it.
The valet de chambre appeared on the door-steps.

ГўВҖВңYou will excuse this poor fellow, madame,ГўВҖВқ he said, as he preceded the
baroness, ГўВҖВңbut his orders are precise, and M. de Villefort begged me to
tell you that he could not act otherwise.ГўВҖВқ

In the court showing his merchandise, was a tradesman who had been
admitted with the same precautions. The baroness ascended the steps;
she felt herself strongly infected with the sadness which seemed to
magnify her own, and still guided by the valet de chambre, who never
lost sight of her for an instant, she was introduced to the
magistrateГўВҖВҷs study.

Preoccupied as Madame Danglars had been with the object of her visit,
the treatment she had received from these underlings appeared to her so
insulting, that she began by complaining of it. But Villefort, raising
his head, bowed down by grief, looked up at her with so sad a smile
that her complaints died upon her lips.

ГўВҖВңForgive my servants,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңfor a terror I cannot blame them for;
from being suspected they have become suspicious.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars had often heard of the terror to which the magistrate
alluded, but without the evidence of her own eyesight she could never
have believed that the sentiment had been carried so far.

ГўВҖВңYou too, then, are unhappy?ГўВҖВқ she said.

ГўВҖВңYes, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied the magistrate.

ГўВҖВңThen you pity me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSincerely, madame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you understand what brings me here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou wish to speak to me about the circumstance which has just
happened?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir,ГўВҖВ”a fearful misfortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou mean a mischance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA mischance?ГўВҖВқ repeated the baroness.

ГўВҖВңAlas, madame,ГўВҖВқ said the procureur with his imperturbable calmness of
manner, ГўВҖВңI consider those alone misfortunes which are irreparable.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd do you suppose this will be forgotten?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverything will be forgotten, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort. ГўВҖВңYour daughter
will be married tomorrow, if not todayГўВҖВ”in a week, if not tomorrow; and
I do not think you can regret the intended husband of your daughter.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars gazed on Villefort, stupefied to find him so almost
insultingly calm. ГўВҖВңAm I come to a friend?ГўВҖВқ she asked in a tone full of
mournful dignity.

ГўВҖВңYou know that you are, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, whose pale cheeks
became slightly flushed as he gave her the assurance. And truly this
assurance carried him back to different events from those now occupying
the baroness and him.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, be more affectionate, my dear Villefort,ГўВҖВқ said the
baroness. ГўВҖВңSpeak to me not as a magistrate, but as a friend; and when I
am in bitter anguish of spirit, do not tell me that I ought to be gay.ГўВҖВқ
Villefort bowed.

ГўВҖВңWhen I hear misfortunes named, madame,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңI have within the
last few months contracted the bad habit of thinking of my own, and
then I cannot help drawing up an egotistical parallel in my mind. That
is the reason that by the side of my misfortunes yours appear to me
mere mischances; that is why my dreadful position makes yours appear
enviable. But this annoys you; let us change the subject. You were
saying, madameГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI came to ask you, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, ГўВҖВңwhat will be done
with this impostor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpostor,ГўВҖВқ repeated Villefort; ГўВҖВңcertainly, madame, you appear to
extenuate some cases, and exaggerate others. Impostor, indeed!ГўВҖВ”M.
Andrea Cavalcanti, or rather M. Benedetto, is nothing more nor less
than an assassin!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir, I do not deny the justice of your correction, but the more
severely you arm yourself against that unfortunate man, the more deeply
will you strike our family. Come, forget him for a moment, and instead
of pursuing him, let him go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are too late, madame; the orders are issued.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, should he be arrestedГўВҖВ”do they think they will arrest him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI hope so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf they should arrest him (I know that sometimes prisons afford means
of escape), will you leave him in prison?ГўВҖВқ

The procureur shook his head.

ГўВҖВңAt least keep him there till my daughter be married.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpossible, madame; justice has its formalities.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, even for me?ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, half jesting, half in earnest.

ГўВҖВңFor all, even for myself among the rest,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort.

50063m



ГўВҖВңAh!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the baroness, without expressing the ideas which the
exclamation betrayed. Villefort looked at her with that piercing glance
which reads the secrets of the heart.

ГўВҖВңYes, I know what you mean,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңyou refer to the terrible rumors
spread abroad in the world, that the deaths which have kept me in
mourning for the last three months, and from which Valentine has only
escaped by a miracle, have not happened by natural means.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was not thinking of that,ГўВҖВқ replied Madame Danglars quickly.

ГўВҖВңYes, you were thinking of it, and with justice. You could not help
thinking of it, and saying to yourself, ГўВҖВҳyou, who pursue crime so
vindictively, answer now, why are there unpunished crimes in your
dwelling?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ The baroness became pale. ГўВҖВңYou were saying this, were you
not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I own it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will answer you.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort drew his armchair nearer to Madame Danglars; then resting
both hands upon his desk he said in a voice more hollow than usual:

ГўВҖВңThere are crimes which remain unpunished because the criminals are
unknown, and we might strike the innocent instead of the guilty; but
when the culprits are discoveredГўВҖВқ (Villefort here extended his hand
toward a large crucifix placed opposite to his desk)ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңwhen they are
discovered, I swear to you, by all I hold most sacred, that whoever
they may be they shall die. Now, after the oath I have just taken, and
which I will keep, madame, dare you ask for mercy for that wretch!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, sir, are you sure he is as guilty as they say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen; this is his description: ГўВҖВҳBenedetto, condemned, at the age of
sixteen, for five years to the galleys for forgery.ГўВҖВҷ He promised well,
as you seeГўВҖВ”first a runaway, then an assassin.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd who is this wretch?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho can tell?ГўВҖВ”a vagabond, a Corsican.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas no one owned him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo one; his parents are unknown.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut who was the man who brought him from Lucca?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnother rascal like himself, perhaps his accomplice.ГўВҖВқ The baroness
clasped her hands.

ГўВҖВңVillefort,ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed in her softest and most captivating manner.

ГўВҖВңFor HeavenГўВҖВҷs sake, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, with a firmness of
expression not altogether free from harshnessГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңfor HeavenГўВҖВҷs sake, do
not ask pardon of me for a guilty wretch! What am I?ГўВҖВ”the law. Has the
law any eyes to witness your grief? Has the law ears to be melted by
your sweet voice? Has the law a memory for all those soft recollections
you endeavor to recall? No, madame; the law has commanded, and when it
commands it strikes. You will tell me that I am a living being, and not
a codeГўВҖВ”a man, and not a volume. Look at me, madameГўВҖВ”look around me. Has
mankind treated me as a brother? Have men loved me? Have they spared
me? Has anyone shown the mercy towards me that you now ask at my hands?
No, madame, they struck me, always struck me!

50065m



ГўВҖВңWoman, siren that you are, do you persist in fixing on me that
fascinating eye, which reminds me that I ought to blush? Well, be it
so; let me blush for the faults you know, and perhapsГўВҖВ”perhaps for even
more than those! But having sinned myself,ГўВҖВ”it may be more deeply than
others,ГўВҖВ”I never rest till I have torn the disguises from my
fellow-creatures, and found out their weaknesses. I have always found
them; and more,ГўВҖВ”I repeat it with joy, with triumph,ГўВҖВ”I have always found
some proof of human perversity or error. Every criminal I condemn seems
to me living evidence that I am not a hideous exception to the rest.
Alas, alas, alas; all the world is wicked; let us therefore strike at
wickedness!ГўВҖВқ

Villefort pronounced these last words with a feverish rage, which gave
a ferocious eloquence to his words.

ГўВҖВңButГўВҖВқГўВҖВҷ said Madame Danglars, resolving to make a last effort, ГўВҖВңthis
young man, though a murderer, is an orphan, abandoned by everybody.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the worse, or rather, so much the better; it has been so
ordained that he may have none to weep his fate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut this is trampling on the weak, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe weakness of a murderer!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis dishonor reflects upon us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs not death in my house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, sir,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the baroness, ГўВҖВңyou are without pity for others,
well, then, I tell you they will have no mercy on you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe it so!ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, raising his arms to heaven with a
threatening gesture.

ГўВҖВңAt least, delay the trial till the next assizes; we shall then have
six months before us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңinstructions have been given. There are
yet five days left; five days are more than I require. Do you not think
that I also long for forgetfulness? While working night and day, I
sometimes lose all recollection of the past, and then I experience the
same sort of happiness I can imagine the dead feel; still, it is better
than suffering.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, sir, he has fled; let him escapeГўВҖВ”inaction is a pardonable
offence.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI tell you it is too late; early this morning the telegraph was
employed, and at this very minuteГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said the valet de chambre, entering the room, ГўВҖВңa dragoon has
brought this despatch from the Minister of the Interior.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort seized the letter, and hastily broke the seal. Madame
Danglars trembled with fear; Villefort started with joy.

ГўВҖВңArrested!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed; ГўВҖВңhe was taken at CompiГғВЁgne, and all is over.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars rose from her seat, pale and cold.

ГўВҖВңAdieu, sir,ГўВҖВқ she said.

ГўВҖВңAdieu, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, as in an almost joyful
manner he conducted her to the door. Then, turning to his desk, he
said, striking the letter with the back of his right hand:

ГўВҖВңCome, I had a forgery, three robberies, and two cases of arson, I only
wanted a murder, and here it is. It will be a splendid session!ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 100. The Apparition

As the procureur had told Madame Danglars, Valentine was not yet
recovered. Bowed down with fatigue, she was indeed confined to her bed;
and it was in her own room, and from the lips of Madame de Villefort,
that she heard all the strange events we have related; we mean the
flight of EugГғВ©nie and the arrest of Andrea Cavalcanti, or rather
Benedetto, together with the accusation of murder pronounced against
him. But Valentine was so weak that this recital scarcely produced the
same effect it would have done had she been in her usual state of
health. Indeed, her brain was only the seat of vague ideas, and
confused forms, mingled with strange fancies, alone presented
themselves before her eyes.

During the daytime ValentineГўВҖВҷs perceptions remained tolerably clear,
owing to the constant presence of M. Noirtier, who caused himself to be
carried to his granddaughterГўВҖВҷs room, and watched her with his paternal
tenderness; Villefort also, on his return from the law courts,
frequently passed an hour or two with his father and child.

At six oГўВҖВҷclock Villefort retired to his study, at eight M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny
himself arrived, bringing the night draught prepared for the young
girl, and then M. Noirtier was carried away. A nurse of the doctorГўВҖВҷs
choice succeeded them, and never left till about ten or eleven oГўВҖВҷclock,
when Valentine was asleep. As she went downstairs she gave the keys of
ValentineГўВҖВҷs room to M. de Villefort, so that no one could reach the
sick-room excepting through that of Madame de Villefort and little
Edward.

Every morning Morrel called on Noirtier to receive news of Valentine,
and, extraordinary as it seemed, each day found him less uneasy.
Certainly, though Valentine still labored under dreadful nervous
excitement, she was better; and moreover, Monte Cristo had told him
when, half distracted, he had rushed to the countГўВҖВҷs house, that if she
were not dead in two hours she would be saved. Now four days had
elapsed, and Valentine still lived.

The nervous excitement of which we speak pursued Valentine even in her
sleep, or rather in that state of somnolence which succeeded her waking
hours; it was then, in the silence of night, in the dim light shed from
the alabaster lamp on the chimney-piece, that she saw the shadows pass
and repass which hover over the bed of sickness, and fan the fever with
their trembling wings. First she fancied she saw her stepmother
threatening her, then Morrel stretched his arms towards her; sometimes
mere strangers, like the Count of Monte Cristo came to visit her; even
the very furniture, in these moments of delirium, seemed to move, and
this state lasted till about three oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning, when a deep,
heavy slumber overcame the young girl, from which she did not awake
till daylight.

On the evening of the day on which Valentine had learned of the flight
of EugГғВ©nie and the arrest of Benedetto,ГўВҖВ”Villefort having retired as
well as Noirtier and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny,ГўВҖВ”her thoughts wandered in a confused
maze, alternately reviewing her own situation and the events she had
just heard.

Eleven oГўВҖВҷclock had struck. The nurse, having placed the beverage
prepared by the doctor within reach of the patient, and locked the
door, was listening with terror to the comments of the servants in the
kitchen, and storing her memory with all the horrible stories which had
for some months past amused the occupants of the antechambers in the
house of the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney. Meanwhile an unexpected scene was passing
in the room which had been so carefully locked.

Ten minutes had elapsed since the nurse had left; Valentine, who for
the last hour had been suffering from the fever which returned nightly,
incapable of controlling her ideas, was forced to yield to the
excitement which exhausted itself in producing and reproducing a
succession and recurrence of the same fancies and images. The
night-lamp threw out countless rays, each resolving itself into some
strange form to her disordered imagination, when suddenly by its
flickering light Valentine thought she saw the door of her library,
which was in the recess by the chimney-piece, open slowly, though she
in vain listened for the sound of the hinges on which it turned.

At any other time Valentine would have seized the silken bell-pull and
summoned assistance, but nothing astonished her in her present
situation. Her reason told her that all the visions she beheld were but
the children of her imagination, and the conviction was strengthened by
the fact that in the morning no traces remained of the nocturnal
phantoms, who disappeared with the coming of daylight.

From behind the door a human figure appeared, but the girl was too
familiar with such apparitions to be alarmed, and therefore only
stared, hoping to recognize Morrel. The figure advanced towards the bed
and appeared to listen with profound attention. At this moment a ray of
light glanced across the face of the midnight visitor.

ГўВҖВңIt is not he,ГўВҖВқ she murmured, and waited, in the assurance that this
was but a dream, for the man to disappear or assume some other form.
Still, she felt her pulse, and finding it throb violently she
remembered that the best method of dispelling such illusions was to
drink, for a draught of the beverage prepared by the doctor to allay
her fever seemed to cause a reaction of the brain, and for a short time
she suffered less. Valentine therefore reached her hand towards the
glass, but as soon as her trembling arm left the bed the apparition
advanced more quickly towards her, and approached the young girl so
closely that she fancied she heard his breath, and felt the pressure of
his hand.

This time the illusion, or rather the reality, surpassed anything
Valentine had before experienced; she began to believe herself really
alive and awake, and the belief that her reason was this time not
deceived made her shudder. The pressure she felt was evidently intended
to arrest her arm, and she slowly withdrew it. Then the figure, from
whom she could not detach her eyes, and who appeared more protecting
than menacing, took the glass, and walking towards the night-light held
it up, as if to test its transparency. This did not seem sufficient;
the man, or rather the ghostГўВҖВ”for he trod so softly that no sound was
heardГўВҖВ”then poured out about a spoonful into the glass, and drank it.

Valentine witnessed this scene with a sentiment of stupefaction. Every
minute she had expected that it would vanish and give place to another
vision; but the man, instead of dissolving like a shadow, again
approached her, and said in an agitated voice, ГўВҖВңNow you may drink.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine shuddered. It was the first time one of these visions had
ever addressed her in a living voice, and she was about to utter an
exclamation. The man placed his finger on her lips.

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo!ГўВҖВқ she murmured.

It was easy to see that no doubt now remained in the young girlГўВҖВҷs mind
as to the reality of the scene; her eyes started with terror, her hands
trembled, and she rapidly drew the bedclothes closer to her. Still, the
presence of Monte Cristo at such an hour, his mysterious, fanciful, and
extraordinary entrance into her room through the wall, might well seem
impossibilities to her shattered reason.

ГўВҖВңDo not call anyoneГўВҖВ”do not be alarmed,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңdo not let a
shade of suspicion or uneasiness remain in your breast; the man
standing before you, Valentine (for this time it is no ghost), is
nothing more than the tenderest father and the most respectful friend
you could dream of.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine could not reply; the voice which indicated the real presence
of a being in the room, alarmed her so much that she feared to utter a
syllable; still the expression of her eyes seemed to inquire, ГўВҖВңIf your
intentions are pure, why are you here?ГўВҖВқ The countГўВҖВҷs marvellous sagacity
understood all that was passing in the young girlГўВҖВҷs mind.

ГўВҖВңListen to me,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңor, rather, look upon me; look at my face,
paler even than usual, and my eyes, red with wearinessГўВҖВ”for four days I
have not closed them, for I have been constantly watching you, to
protect and preserve you for Maximilian.ГўВҖВқ

The blood mounted rapidly to the cheeks of Valentine, for the name just
announced by the count dispelled all the fear with which his presence
had inspired her.

ГўВҖВңMaximilian!ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, and so sweet did the sound appear to her,
that she repeated itГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMaximilian!ГўВҖВ”has he then owned all to you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverything. He told me your life was his, and I have promised him that
you shall live.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have promised him that I shall live?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, sir, you spoke of vigilance and protection. Are you a doctor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; the best you could have at the present time, believe me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you say you have watched?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine uneasily; ГўВҖВңwhere have
you been?ГўВҖВ”I have not seen you.ГўВҖВқ

The count extended his hand towards the library.

ГўВҖВңI was hidden behind that door,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңwhich leads into the next
house, which I have rented.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine turned her eyes away, and, with an indignant expression of
pride and modest fear, exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңSir, I think you have been guilty of an unparalleled intrusion, and
that what you call protection is more like an insult.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ he answered, ГўВҖВңduring my long watch over you, all I have
observed has been what people visited you, what nourishment was
prepared, and what beverage was served; then, when the latter appeared
dangerous to me, I entered, as I have now done, and substituted, in the
place of the poison, a healthful draught; which, instead of producing
the death intended, caused life to circulate in your veins.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoisonГўВҖВ”death!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Valentine, half believing herself under the
influence of some feverish hallucination; ГўВҖВңwhat are you saying, sir?ГўВҖВқ

50071m



ГўВҖВңHush, my child,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, again placing his finger upon her
lips, ГўВҖВңI did say poison and death. But drink some of this;ГўВҖВқ and the
count took a bottle from his pocket, containing a red liquid, of which
he poured a few drops into the glass. ГўВҖВңDrink this, and then take
nothing more tonight.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine stretched out her hand, but scarcely had she touched the
glass when she drew back in fear. Monte Cristo took the glass, drank
half its contents, and then presented it to Valentine, who smiled and
swallowed the rest.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, ГўВҖВңI recognize the flavor of my nocturnal
beverage which refreshed me so much, and seemed to ease my aching
brain. Thank you, sir, thank you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is how you have lived during the last four nights, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ
said the count. ГўВҖВңBut, oh, how I passed that time! Oh, the wretched
hours I have enduredГўВҖВ”the torture to which I have submitted when I saw
the deadly poison poured into your glass, and how I trembled lest you
should drink it before I could find time to throw it away!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, at the height of her terror, ГўВҖВңyou say you
endured tortures when you saw the deadly poison poured into my glass;
but if you saw this, you must also have seen the person who poured it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine raised herself in bed, and drew over her chest, which
appeared whiter than snow, the embroidered cambric, still moist with
the cold dews of delirium, to which were now added those of terror.
ГўВҖВңYou saw the person?ГўВҖВқ repeated the young girl.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ repeated the count.

ГўВҖВңWhat you tell me is horrible, sir. You wish to make me believe
something too dreadful. What?ГўВҖВ”attempt to murder me in my fatherГўВҖВҷs
house, in my room, on my bed of sickness? Oh, leave me, sir; you are
tempting meГўВҖВ”you make me doubt the goodness of ProvidenceГўВҖВ”it is
impossible, it cannot be!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you the first that this hand has stricken? Have you not seen M. de
Saint-MГғВ©ran, Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran, Barrois, all fall? Would not M.
Noirtier also have fallen a victim, had not the treatment he has been
pursuing for the last three years neutralized the effects of the
poison?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, Heaven,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңis this the reason why grandpapa has
made me share all his beverages during the last month?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd have they all tasted of a slightly bitter flavor, like that of
dried orange-peel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, yes!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen that explains all,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңYour grandfather knows,
then, that a poisoner lives here; perhaps he even suspects the person.
He has been fortifying you, his beloved child, against the fatal
effects of the poison, which has failed because your system was already
impregnated with it. But even this would have availed little against a
more deadly medium of death employed four days ago, which is generally
but too fatal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut who, then, is this assassin, this murderer?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet me also ask you a question. Have you never seen anyone enter your
room at night?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes; I have frequently seen shadows pass close to me, approach,
and disappear; but I took them for visions raised by my feverish
imagination, and indeed when you entered I thought I was under the
influence of delirium.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you do not know who it is that attempts your life?ГўВҖВқ

50073m



ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңwho could desire my death?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou shall know it now, then,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, listening.

ГўВҖВңHow do you mean?ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, looking anxiously around.

ГўВҖВңBecause you are not feverish or delirious tonight, but thoroughly
awake; midnight is striking, which is the hour murderers choose.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, heavens,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Valentine, wiping off the drops which ran down
her forehead. Midnight struck slowly and sadly; every hour seemed to
strike with leaden weight upon the heart of the poor girl.

ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңsummon up all your courage; still the
beatings of your heart; do not let a sound escape you, and feign to be
asleep; then you will see.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine seized the countГўВҖВҷs hand. ГўВҖВңI think I hear a noise,ГўВҖВқ she said;
ГўВҖВңleave me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood-bye, for the present,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, walking upon tiptoe
towards the library door, and smiling with an expression so sad and
paternal that the young girlГўВҖВҷs heart was filled with gratitude.

Before closing the door he turned around once more, and said, ГўВҖВңNot a
movementГўВҖВ”not a word; let them think you asleep, or perhaps you may be
killed before I have the power of helping you.ГўВҖВқ

And with this fearful injunction the count disappeared through the
door, which noiselessly closed after him.



 Chapter 101. Locusta

Valentine was alone; two other clocks, slower than that of
Saint-Philippe-du-Roule, struck the hour of midnight from different
directions, and excepting the rumbling of a few carriages all was
silent. Then ValentineГўВҖВҷs attention was engrossed by the clock in her
room, which marked the seconds. She began counting them, remarking that
they were much slower than the beatings of her heart; and still she
doubted,ГўВҖВ”the inoffensive Valentine could not imagine that anyone should
desire her death. Why should they? To what end? What had she done to
excite the malice of an enemy?

There was no fear of her falling asleep. One terrible idea pressed upon
her mind,ГўВҖВ”that someone existed in the world who had attempted to
assassinate her, and who was about to endeavor to do so again.
Supposing this person, wearied at the inefficacy of the poison, should,
as Monte Cristo intimated, have recourse to steel!ГўВҖВ”What if the count
should have no time to run to her rescue!ГўВҖВ”What if her last moments were
approaching, and she should never again see Morrel!

When this terrible chain of ideas presented itself, Valentine was
nearly persuaded to ring the bell, and call for help. But through the
door she fancied she saw the luminous eye of the countГўВҖВ”that eye which
lived in her memory, and the recollection overwhelmed her with so much
shame that she asked herself whether any amount of gratitude could ever
repay his adventurous and devoted friendship.

Twenty minutes, twenty tedious minutes, passed thus, then ten more, and
at last the clock struck the half-hour.

Just then the sound of finger-nails slightly grating against the door
of the library informed Valentine that the count was still watching,
and recommended her to do the same; at the same time, on the opposite
side, that is towards EdwardГўВҖВҷs room, Valentine fancied that she heard
the creaking of the floor; she listened attentively, holding her breath
till she was nearly suffocated; the lock turned, and the door slowly
opened. Valentine had raised herself upon her elbow, and had scarcely
time to throw herself down on the bed and shade her eyes with her arm;
then, trembling, agitated, and her heart beating with indescribable
terror, she awaited the event.

Someone approached the bed and drew back the curtains. Valentine
summoned every effort, and breathed with that regular respiration which
announces tranquil sleep.

ГўВҖВңValentine!ГўВҖВқ said a low voice.

The girl shuddered to the heart but did not reply.

ГўВҖВңValentine,ГўВҖВқ repeated the same voice.

Still silent: Valentine had promised not to wake. Then everything was
still, excepting that Valentine heard the almost noiseless sound of
some liquid being poured into the glass she had just emptied. Then she
ventured to open her eyelids, and glance over her extended arm. She saw
a woman in a white dressing-gown pouring a liquor from a phial into her
glass. During this short time Valentine must have held her breath, or
moved in some slight degree, for the woman, disturbed, stopped and
leaned over the bed, in order the better to ascertain whether Valentine
slept: it was Madame de Villefort.

On recognizing her step-mother, Valentine could not repress a shudder,
which caused a vibration in the bed. Madame de Villefort instantly
stepped back close to the wall, and there, shaded by the bed-curtains,
she silently and attentively watched the slightest movement of
Valentine. The latter recollected the terrible caution of Monte Cristo;
she fancied that the hand not holding the phial clasped a long sharp
knife. Then collecting all her remaining strength, she forced herself
to close her eyes; but this simple operation upon the most delicate
organs of our frame, generally so easy to accomplish, became almost
impossible at this moment, so much did curiosity struggle to retain the
eyelid open and learn the truth. Madame de Villefort, however,
reassured by the silence, which was alone disturbed by the regular
breathing of Valentine, again extended her hand, and half hidden by the
curtains succeeded in emptying the contents of the phial into the
glass. Then she retired so gently that Valentine did not know she had
left the room. She only witnessed the withdrawal of the armГўВҖВ”the fair
round arm of a woman but twenty-five years old, and who yet spread
death around her.

50077m



It is impossible to describe the sensations experienced by Valentine
during the minute and a half Madame de Villefort remained in the room.

The grating against the library-door aroused the young girl from the
stupor in which she was plunged, and which almost amounted to
insensibility. She raised her head with an effort. The noiseless door
again turned on its hinges, and the Count of Monte Cristo reappeared.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdo you still doubt?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ murmured the young girl.

ГўВҖВңHave you seen?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you recognize?ГўВҖВқ Valentine groaned.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes;ГўВҖВқ she said, ГўВҖВңI saw, but I cannot believe!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWould you rather die, then, and cause MaximilianГўВҖВҷs death?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ repeated the young girl, almost bewildered, ГўВҖВңcan I not leave the
house?ГўВҖВ”can I not escape?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine, the hand which now threatens you will pursue you
everywhere; your servants will be seduced with gold, and death will be
offered to you disguised in every shape. You will find it in the water
you drink from the spring, in the fruit you pluck from the tree.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut did you not say that my kind grandfatherГўВҖВҷs precaution had
neutralized the poison?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, but not against a strong dose; the poison will be changed, and
the quantity increased.ГўВҖВқ He took the glass and raised it to his lips.
ГўВҖВңIt is already done,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңbrucine is no longer employed, but a
simple narcotic! I can recognize the flavor of the alcohol in which it
has been dissolved. If you had taken what Madame de Villefort has
poured into your glass, ValentineГўВҖВ”ValentineГўВҖВ”you would have been
doomed!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young girl, ГўВҖВңwhy am I thus pursued?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВ”are you so kindГўВҖВ”so goodГўВҖВ”so unsuspicious of ill, that you cannot
understand, Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I have never injured her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you are rich, Valentine; you have 200,000 livres a year, and you
prevent her son from enjoying these 200,000 livres.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so? The fortune is not her gift, but is inherited from my
relations.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; and that is why M. and Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran have died;
that is why M. Noirtier was sentenced the day he made you his heir;
that is why you, in your turn, are to dieГўВҖВ”it is because your father
would inherit your property, and your brother, his only son, succeed to
his.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEdward? Poor child! Are all these crimes committed on his account?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, then you at length understand?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHeaven grant that this may not be visited upon him!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine, you are an angel!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut why is my grandfather allowed to live?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was considered, that you dead, the fortune would naturally revert
to your brother, unless he were disinherited; and besides, the crime
appearing useless, it would be folly to commit it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd is it possible that this frightful combination of crimes has been
invented by a woman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you recollect in the arbor of the HГғВҙtel des Postes, at Perugia,
seeing a man in a brown cloak, whom your stepmother was questioning
upon _aqua tofana_? Well, ever since then, the infernal project has
been ripening in her brain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, then, indeed, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the sweet girl, bathed in tears, ГўВҖВңI see
that I am condemned to die!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, Valentine, for I have foreseen all their plots; no, your enemy is
conquered since we know her, and you will live, ValentineГўВҖВ”live to be
happy yourself, and to confer happiness upon a noble heart; but to
insure this you must rely on me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCommand me, sirГўВҖВ”what am I to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must blindly take what I give you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, were it only for my own sake, I should prefer to die!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must not confide in anyoneГўВҖВ”not even in your father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father is not engaged in this fearful plot, is he, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked
Valentine, clasping her hands.

ГўВҖВңNo; and yet your father, a man accustomed to judicial accusations,
ought to have known that all these deaths have not happened naturally;
it is he who should have watched over youГўВҖВ”he should have occupied my
placeГўВҖВ”he should have emptied that glassГўВҖВ”he should have risen against
the assassin. Spectre against spectre!ГўВҖВқ he murmured in a low voice, as
he concluded his sentence.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңI will do all I can to live, for there are two
beings who love me and will die if I dieГўВҖВ”my grandfather and
Maximilian.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will watch over them as I have over you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, sir, do as you will with me;ГўВҖВқ and then she added, in a low
voice, ГўВҖВңoh, heavens, what will befall me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhatever may happen, Valentine, do not be alarmed; though you suffer;
though you lose sight, hearing, consciousness, fear nothing; though you
should awake and be ignorant where you are, still do not fear; even
though you should find yourself in a sepulchral vault or coffin.
Reassure yourself, then, and say to yourself: ГўВҖВҳAt this moment, a
friend, a father, who lives for my happiness and that of Maximilian,
watches over me!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, alas, what a fearful extremity!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine, would you rather denounce your stepmother?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI would rather die a hundred timesГўВҖВ”oh, yes, die!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, you will not die; but will you promise me, whatever happens, that
you will not complain, but hope?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will think of Maximilian!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are my own darling child, Valentine! I alone can save you, and I
will.ГўВҖВқ

Valentine in the extremity of her terror joined her hands,ГўВҖВ”for she felt
that the moment had arrived to ask for courage,ГўВҖВ”and began to pray, and
while uttering little more than incoherent words, she forgot that her
white shoulders had no other covering than her long hair, and that the
pulsations of her heart could be seen through the lace of her
nightdress. Monte Cristo gently laid his hand on the young girlГўВҖВҷs arm,
drew the velvet coverlet close to her throat, and said with a paternal
smile:

ГўВҖВңMy child, believe in my devotion to you as you believe in the goodness
of Providence and the love of Maximilian.ГўВҖВқ Valentine gave him a look
full of gratitude, and remained as docile as a child.

Then he drew from his waistcoat-pocket the little emerald box, raised
the golden lid, and took from it a pastille about the size of a pea,
which he placed in her hand. She took it, and looked attentively on the
count; there was an expression on the face of her intrepid protector
which commanded her veneration. She evidently interrogated him by her
look.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said he.

Valentine carried the pastille to her mouth, and swallowed it.

ГўВҖВңAnd now, my dear child, adieu for the present. I will try and gain a
little sleep, for you are saved.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine, ГўВҖВңwhatever happens, I promise you not to fear.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo for some time kept his eyes fixed on the young girl, who
gradually fell asleep, yielding to the effects of the narcotic the
count had given her. Then he took the glass, emptied three parts of the
contents in the fireplace, that it might be supposed Valentine had
taken it, and replaced it on the table; then he disappeared, after
throwing a farewell glance on Valentine, who slept with the confidence
and innocence of an angel at the feet of the Lord.



 Chapter 102. Valentine

The night-light continued to burn on the chimney-piece, exhausting the
last drops of oil which floated on the surface of the water. The globe
of the lamp appeared of a reddish hue, and the flame, brightening
before it expired, threw out the last flickerings which in an inanimate
object have been so often compared with the convulsions of a human
creature in its final agonies. A dull and dismal light was shed over
the bedclothes and curtains surrounding the young girl. All noise in
the streets had ceased, and the silence was frightful.

It was then that the door of EdwardГўВҖВҷs room opened, and a head we have
before noticed appeared in the glass opposite; it was Madame de
Villefort, who came to witness the effects of the drink she had
prepared. She stopped in the doorway, listened for a moment to the
flickering of the lamp, the only sound in that deserted room, and then
advanced to the table to see if ValentineГўВҖВҷs glass were empty. It was
still about a quarter full, as we before stated. Madame de Villefort
emptied the contents into the ashes, which she disturbed that they
might the more readily absorb the liquid; then she carefully rinsed the
glass, and wiping it with her handkerchief replaced it on the table.

If anyone could have looked into the room just then he would have
noticed the hesitation with which Madame de Villefort approached the
bed and looked fixedly on Valentine. The dim light, the profound
silence, and the gloomy thoughts inspired by the hour, and still more
by her own conscience, all combined to produce a sensation of fear; the
poisoner was terrified at the contemplation of her own work.

At length she rallied, drew aside the curtain, and leaning over the
pillow gazed intently on Valentine. The young girl no longer breathed,
no breath issued through the half-closed teeth; the white lips no
longer quiveredГўВҖВ”the eyes were suffused with a bluish vapor, and the
long black lashes rested on a cheek white as wax. Madame de Villefort
gazed upon the face so expressive even in its stillness; then she
ventured to raise the coverlet and press her hand upon the young girlГўВҖВҷs
heart. It was cold and motionless. She only felt the pulsation in her
own fingers, and withdrew her hand with a shudder. One arm was hanging
out of the bed; from shoulder to elbow it was moulded after the arms of
Germain PillonГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВңGraces,ГўВҖВқ23 but the fore-arm seemed to be slightly
distorted by convulsion, and the hand, so delicately formed, was
resting with stiff outstretched fingers on the framework of the bed.
The nails, too, were turning blue.

Madame de Villefort had no longer any doubt; all was overГўВҖВ”she had
consummated the last terrible work she had to accomplish. There was no
more to do in the room, so the poisoner retired stealthily, as though
fearing to hear the sound of her own footsteps; but as she withdrew she
still held aside the curtain, absorbed in the irresistible attraction
always exerted by the picture of death, so long as it is merely
mysterious and does not excite disgust.

The minutes passed; Madame de Villefort could not drop the curtain
which she held like a funeral pall over the head of Valentine. She was
lost in reverie, and the reverie of crime is remorse.

Just then the lamp again flickered; the noise startled Madame de
Villefort, who shuddered and dropped the curtain. Immediately
afterwards the light expired, and the room was plunged in frightful
obscurity, while the clock at that minute struck half-past four.

Overpowered with agitation, the poisoner succeeded in groping her way
to the door, and reached her room in an agony of fear. The darkness
lasted two hours longer; then by degrees a cold light crept through the
Venetian blinds, until at length it revealed the objects in the room.

About this time the nurseГўВҖВҷs cough was heard on the stairs and the woman
entered the room with a cup in her hand. To the tender eye of a father
or a lover, the first glance would have sufficed to reveal ValentineГўВҖВҷs
condition; but to this hireling, Valentine only appeared to sleep.

ГўВҖВңGood,ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, approaching the table, ГўВҖВңshe has taken part of
her draught; the glass is three-quarters empty.ГўВҖВқ

Then she went to the fireplace and lit the fire, and although she had
just left her bed, she could not resist the temptation offered by
ValentineГўВҖВҷs sleep, so she threw herself into an armchair to snatch a
little more rest. The clock striking eight awoke her. Astonished at the
prolonged slumber of the patient, and frightened to see that the arm
was still hanging out of the bed, she advanced towards Valentine, and
for the first time noticed the white lips. She tried to replace the
arm, but it moved with a frightful rigidity which could not deceive a
sick-nurse. She screamed aloud; then running to the door exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңHelp, help!ГўВҖВқ

50083m



ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ asked M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, at the foot of the stairs, it
being the hour he usually visited her.

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort, rushing from his room. ГўВҖВңDoctor, do you
hear them call for help?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes; let us hasten up; it was in ValentineГўВҖВҷs room.ГўВҖВқ

But before the doctor and the father could reach the room, the servants
who were on the same floor had entered, and seeing Valentine pale and
motionless on her bed, they lifted up their hands towards heaven and
stood transfixed, as though struck by lightening.

ГўВҖВңCall Madame de Villefort!ГўВҖВ”Wake Madame de Villefort!ГўВҖВқ cried the
procureur from the door of his chamber, which apparently he scarcely
dared to leave. But instead of obeying him, the servants stood watching
M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, who ran to Valentine, and raised her in his arms.

ГўВҖВңWhat?ГўВҖВ”this one, too?ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed. ГўВҖВңOh, where will be the end?ГўВҖВқ

Villefort rushed into the room.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you saying, doctor?ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, raising his hands to
heaven.

ГўВҖВңI say that Valentine is dead!ГўВҖВқ replied dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, in a voice terrible
in its solemn calmness.

50085m



M. de Villefort staggered and buried his head in the bed. On the
exclamation of the doctor and the cry of the father, the servants all
fled with muttered imprecations; they were heard running down the
stairs and through the long passages, then there was a rush in the
court, afterwards all was still; they had, one and all, deserted the
accursed house.

Just then, Madame de Villefort, in the act of slipping on her
dressing-gown, threw aside the drapery and for a moment stood
motionless, as though interrogating the occupants of the room, while
she endeavored to call up some rebellious tears. On a sudden she
stepped, or rather bounded, with outstretched arms, towards the table.
She saw dГўВҖВҷAvrigny curiously examining the glass, which she felt certain
of having emptied during the night. It was now a third full, just as it
was when she threw the contents into the ashes. The spectre of
Valentine rising before the poisoner would have alarmed her less. It
was, indeed, the same color as the draught she had poured into the
glass, and which Valentine had drunk; it was indeed the poison, which
could not deceive M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, which he now examined so closely; it
was doubtless a miracle from heaven, that, notwithstanding her
precautions, there should be some trace, some proof remaining to reveal
the crime.

While Madame de Villefort remained rooted to the spot like a statue of
terror, and Villefort, with his head hidden in the bedclothes, saw
nothing around him, dГўВҖВҷAvrigny approached the window, that he might the
better examine the contents of the glass, and dipping the tip of his
finger in, tasted it.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңit is no longer brucine that is used; let me see
what it is!ГўВҖВқ

Then he ran to one of the cupboards in ValentineГўВҖВҷs room, which had been
transformed into a medicine closet, and taking from its silver case a
small bottle of nitric acid, dropped a little of it into the liquor,
which immediately changed to a blood-red color.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, in a voice in which the horror of a judge
unveiling the truth was mingled with the delight of a student making a
discovery.

Madame de Villefort was overpowered; her eyes first flashed and then
swam, she staggered towards the door and disappeared. Directly
afterwards the distant sound of a heavy weight falling on the ground
was heard, but no one paid any attention to it; the nurse was engaged
in watching the chemical analysis, and Villefort was still absorbed in
grief. M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny alone had followed Madame de Villefort with his
eyes, and watched her hurried retreat. He lifted up the drapery over
the entrance to EdwardГўВҖВҷs room, and his eye reaching as far as Madame de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs apartment, he beheld her extended lifeless on the floor.

ГўВҖВңGo to the assistance of Madame de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ he said to the nurse.
ГўВҖВңMadame de Villefort is ill.ГўВҖВқ

50087m



ГўВҖВңBut Mademoiselle de VillefortГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ stammered the nurse.

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle de Villefort no longer requires help,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny,
ГўВҖВңsince she is dead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDead,ГўВҖВ”dead!ГўВҖВқ groaned forth Villefort, in a paroxysm of grief, which
was the more terrible from the novelty of the sensation in the iron
heart of that man.

ГўВҖВңDead!ГўВҖВқ repeated a third voice. ГўВҖВңWho said Valentine was dead?ГўВҖВқ

The two men turned round, and saw Morrel standing at the door, pale and
terror-stricken. This is what had happened. At the usual time, Morrel
had presented himself at the little door leading to NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room.
Contrary to custom, the door was open, and having no occasion to ring
he entered. He waited for a moment in the hall and called for a servant
to conduct him to M. Noirtier; but no one answered, the servants
having, as we know, deserted the house. Morrel had no particular reason
for uneasiness; Monte Cristo had promised him that Valentine should
live, and so far he had always fulfilled his word. Every night the
count had given him news, which was the next morning confirmed by
Noirtier. Still this extraordinary silence appeared strange to him, and
he called a second and third time; still no answer. Then he determined
to go up. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room was opened, like all the rest. The first
thing he saw was the old man sitting in his armchair in his usual
place, but his eyes expressed alarm, which was confirmed by the pallor
which overspread his features.

ГўВҖВңHow are you, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel, with a sickness of heart.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ answered the old man, by closing his eyes; but his appearance
manifested increasing uneasiness.

ГўВҖВңYou are thoughtful, sir,ГўВҖВқ continued Morrel; ГўВҖВңyou want something; shall
I call one of the servants?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Noirtier.

Morrel pulled the bell, but though he nearly broke the cord no one
answered. He turned towards Noirtier; the pallor and anguish expressed
on his countenance momentarily increased.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel, ГўВҖВңwhy do they not come? Is anyone ill in the
house?ГўВҖВқ The eyes of Noirtier seemed as though they would start from
their sockets. ГўВҖВңWhat is the matter? You alarm me. Valentine?
Valentine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ signed Noirtier.

Maximilian tried to speak, but he could articulate nothing; he
staggered, and supported himself against the wainscot. Then he pointed
to the door.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes, yes!ГўВҖВқ continued the old man.

50089m



Maximilian rushed up the little staircase, while NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eyes seemed
to say,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңQuicker, quicker!ГўВҖВқ

In a minute the young man darted through several rooms, till at length
he reached ValentineГўВҖВҷs.

There was no occasion to push the door, it was wide open. A sob was the
only sound he heard. He saw as though in a mist, a black figure
kneeling and buried in a confused mass of white drapery. A terrible
fear transfixed him. It was then he heard a voice exclaim ГўВҖВңValentine is
dead!ГўВҖВқ and another voice which, like an echo repeated:

ГўВҖВңDead,ГўВҖВ”dead!ГўВҖВқ

50090m




 Chapter 103. Maximilian

Villefort rose, half-ashamed of being surprised in such a paroxysm of
grief. The terrible office he had held for twenty-five years had
succeeded in making him more or less than man. His glance, at first
wandering, fixed itself upon Morrel. ГўВҖВңWho are you, sir,ГўВҖВқ he asked,
ГўВҖВңthat forget that this is not the manner to enter a house stricken with
death? Go, sir, go!ГўВҖВқ

But Morrel remained motionless; he could not detach his eyes from that
disordered bed, and the pale corpse of the young girl who was lying on
it.

ГўВҖВңGo!ГўВҖВ”do you hear?ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, while dГўВҖВҷAvrigny advanced to lead
Morrel out. Maximilian stared for a moment at the corpse, gazed all
around the room, then upon the two men; he opened his mouth to speak,
but finding it impossible to give utterance to the innumerable ideas
that occupied his brain, he went out, thrusting his hands through his
hair in such a manner that Villefort and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, for a moment
diverted from the engrossing topic, exchanged glances, which seemed to
say,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңHe is mad!ГўВҖВқ

But in less than five minutes the staircase groaned beneath an
extraordinary weight. Morrel was seen carrying, with superhuman
strength, the armchair containing Noirtier upstairs. When he reached
the landing he placed the armchair on the floor and rapidly rolled it
into ValentineГўВҖВҷs room. This could only have been accomplished by means
of unnatural strength supplied by powerful excitement. But the most
fearful spectacle was Noirtier being pushed towards the bed, his face
expressing all his meaning, and his eyes supplying the want of every
other faculty. That pale face and flaming glance appeared to Villefort
like a frightful apparition. Each time he had been brought into contact
with his father, something terrible had happened.

ГўВҖВңSee what they have done!ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, with one hand leaning on the
back of the chair, and the other extended towards Valentine. ГўВҖВңSee, my
father, see!ГўВҖВқ

Villefort drew back and looked with astonishment on the young man, who,
almost a stranger to him, called Noirtier his father. At this moment
the whole soul of the old man seemed centred in his eyes which became
bloodshot; the veins of the throat swelled; his cheeks and temples
became purple, as though he was struck with epilepsy; nothing was
wanting to complete this but the utterance of a cry. And the cry issued
from his pores, if we may thus speakГўВҖВ”a cry frightful in its silence.
DГўВҖВҷAvrigny rushed towards the old man and made him inhale a powerful
restorative.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ cried Morrel, seizing the moist hand of the paralytic, ГўВҖВңthey ask
me who I am, and what right I have to be here. Oh, you know it, tell
them, tell them!ГўВҖВқ And the young manГўВҖВҷs voice was choked by sobs.

As for the old man, his chest heaved with his panting respiration. One
could have thought that he was undergoing the agonies preceding death.
At length, happier than the young man, who sobbed without weeping,
tears glistened in the eyes of Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңTell them,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel in a hoarse voice, ГўВҖВңtell them that I am her
betrothed. Tell them she was my beloved, my noble girl, my only
blessing in the world. Tell themГўВҖВ”oh, tell them, that corpse belongs to
me!ГўВҖВқ

The young man overwhelmed by the weight of his anguish, fell heavily on
his knees before the bed, which his fingers grasped with convulsive
energy. DГўВҖВҷAvrigny, unable to bear the sight of this touching emotion,
turned away; and Villefort, without seeking any further explanation,
and attracted towards him by the irresistible magnetism which draws us
towards those who have loved the people for whom we mourn, extended his
hand towards the young man.

But Morrel saw nothing; he had grasped the hand of Valentine, and
unable to weep vented his agony in groans as he bit the sheets. For
some time nothing was heard in that chamber but sobs, exclamations, and
prayers. At length Villefort, the most composed of all, spoke:

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said he to Maximilian, ГўВҖВңyou say you loved Valentine, that you
were betrothed to her. I knew nothing of this engagement, of this love,
yet I, her father, forgive you, for I see that your grief is real and
deep; and besides my own sorrow is too great for anger to find a place
in my heart. But you see that the angel whom you hoped for has left
this earthГўВҖВ”she has nothing more to do with the adoration of men. Take a
last farewell, sir, of her sad remains; take the hand you expected to
possess once more within your own, and then separate yourself from her
forever. Valentine now requires only the ministrations of the priest.ГўВҖВқ

50093m



ГўВҖВңYou are mistaken, sir,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel, raising himself on one knee,
his heart pierced by a more acute pang than any he had yet feltГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyou
are mistaken; Valentine, dying as she has, not only requires a priest,
but an avenger. _You_, M. de Villefort, send for the priest; _I_ will
be the avenger.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean, sir?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort, trembling at the new idea
inspired by the delirium of Morrel.

ГўВҖВңI tell you, sir, that two persons exist in you; the father has mourned
sufficiently, now let the procureur fulfil his office.ГўВҖВқ

The eyes of Noirtier glistened, and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny approached.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, reading all that passed through the minds of
the witnesses to the scene, ГўВҖВңI know what I am saying, and you know as
well as I do what I am about to sayГўВҖВ”Valentine has been assassinated!ГўВҖВқ

Villefort hung his head, dГўВҖВҷAvrigny approached nearer, and Noirtier said
ГўВҖВңYesГўВҖВқ with his eyes.

ГўВҖВңNow, sir,ГўВҖВқ continued Morrel, ГўВҖВңin these days no one can disappear by
violent means without some inquiries being made as to the cause of her
disappearance, even were she not a young, beautiful, and adorable
creature like Valentine. Now, M. le Procureur du Roi,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel with
increasing vehemence, ГўВҖВңno mercy is allowed; I denounce the crime; it is
your place to seek the assassin.ГўВҖВқ

The young manГўВҖВҷs implacable eyes interrogated Villefort, who, on his
side, glanced from Noirtier to dГўВҖВҷAvrigny. But instead of finding
sympathy in the eyes of the doctor and his father, he only saw an
expression as inflexible as that of Maximilian.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ indicated the old man.

ГўВҖВңAssuredly,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, striving to struggle against this triple force
and his own emotion,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңsir, you are deceived; no one commits crimes
here. I am stricken by fate. It is horrible, indeed, but no one
assassinates.ГўВҖВқ

The eyes of Noirtier lighted up with rage, and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny prepared to
speak. Morrel, however, extended his arm, and commanded silence.

ГўВҖВңAnd I say that murders _are_ committed here,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, whose
voice, though lower in tone, lost none of its terrible distinctness: ГўВҖВңI
tell you that this is the fourth victim within the last four months. I
tell you, ValentineГўВҖВҷs life was attempted by poison four days ago,
though she escaped, owing to the precautions of M. Noirtier. I tell you
that the dose has been double, the poison changed, and that this time
it has succeeded. I tell you that you know these things as well as I
do, since this gentleman has forewarned you, both as a doctor and as a
friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you rave, sir,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Villefort, in vain endeavoring to escape
the net in which he was taken.

50095m



ГўВҖВңI rave?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңwell, then, I appeal to M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny himself.
Ask him, sir, if he recollects the words he uttered in the garden of
this house on the night of Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ranГўВҖВҷs death. You thought
yourselves alone, and talked about that tragical death, and the
fatality you mentioned then is the same which has caused the murder of
Valentine.ГўВҖВқ Villefort and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny exchanged looks.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ continued Morrel; ГўВҖВңrecall the scene, for the words you
thought were only given to silence and solitude fell into my ears.
Certainly, after witnessing the culpable indolence manifested by M. de
Villefort towards his own relations, I ought to have denounced him to
the authorities; then I should not have been an accomplice to thy
death, as I now am, sweet, beloved Valentine; but the accomplice shall
become the avenger. This fourth murder is apparent to all, and if thy
father abandon thee, Valentine, it is I, and I swear it, that shall
pursue the assassin.ГўВҖВқ

And this time, as though nature had at least taken compassion on the
vigorous frame, nearly bursting with its own strength, the words of
Morrel were stifled in his throat; his breast heaved; the tears, so
long rebellious, gushed from his eyes; and he threw himself weeping on
his knees by the side of the bed.

Then dГўВҖВҷAvrigny spoke. ГўВҖВңAnd I, too,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed in a low voice, ГўВҖВңI
unite with M. Morrel in demanding justice for crime; my blood boils at
the idea of having encouraged a murderer by my cowardly concession.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, merciful Heavens!ГўВҖВқ murmured Villefort. Morrel raised his head, and
reading the eyes of the old man, which gleamed with unnatural lustre,ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңStay,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңM. Noirtier wishes to speak.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ indicated Noirtier, with an expression the more terrible, from
all his faculties being centred in his glance.

ГўВҖВңDo you know the assassin?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңAnd will you direct us?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young man. ГўВҖВңListen, M.
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, listen!ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier looked upon Morrel with one of those melancholy smiles which
had so often made Valentine happy, and thus fixed his attention. Then,
having riveted the eyes of his interlocutor on his own, he glanced
towards the door.

ГўВҖВңDo you wish me to leave?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, sadly.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Noirtier.

ГўВҖВңAlas, alas, sir, have pity on me!ГўВҖВқ

The old manГўВҖВҷs eyes remained fixed on the door.

ГўВҖВңMay I, at least, return?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMust I leave alone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhom am I to take with me? The procureur?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe doctor?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou wish to remain alone with M. de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut can he understand you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, inexpressibly delighted to think that the
inquiries were to be made by him alone,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңoh, be satisfied, I can
understand my father.ГўВҖВқ While uttering these words with this expression
of joy, his teeth clashed together violently.

DГўВҖВҷAvrigny took the young manГўВҖВҷs arm, and led him out of the room. A more
than deathlike silence then reigned in the house. At the end of a
quarter of an hour a faltering footstep was heard, and Villefort
appeared at the door of the apartment where dГўВҖВҷAvrigny and Morrel had
been staying, one absorbed in meditation, the other in grief.

ГўВҖВңYou can come,ГўВҖВқ he said, and led them back to Noirtier.

Morrel looked attentively on Villefort. His face was livid, large drops
rolled down his face, and in his fingers he held the fragments of a
quill pen which he had torn to atoms.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ he said in a hoarse voice, ГўВҖВңgive me your word of honor
that this horrible secret shall forever remain buried amongst
ourselves!ГўВҖВқ The two men drew back.

ГўВҖВңI entreat youГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ continued Villefort.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңthe culpritГўВҖВ”the murdererГўВҖВ”the assassin.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo not alarm yourself, sir; justice will be done,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort. ГўВҖВңMy
father has revealed the culpritГўВҖВҷs name; my father thirsts for revenge
as much as you do, yet even he conjures you as I do to keep this
secret. Do you not, father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ resolutely replied Noirtier. Morrel suffered an exclamation of
horror and surprise to escape him.

ГўВҖВңOh, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, arresting Maximilian by the arm, ГўВҖВңif my
father, the inflexible man, makes this request, it is because he knows,
be assured, that Valentine will be terribly revenged. Is it not so,
father?ГўВҖВқ

The old man made a sign in the affirmative. Villefort continued:

ГўВҖВңHe knows me, and I have pledged my word to him. Rest assured,
gentlemen, that within three days, in a less time than justice would
demand, the revenge I shall have taken for the murder of my child will
be such as to make the boldest heart tremble;ГўВҖВқ and as he spoke these
words he ground his teeth, and grasped the old manГўВҖВҷs senseless hand.

ГўВҖВңWill this promise be fulfilled, M. Noirtier?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel, while
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny looked inquiringly.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied Noirtier with an expression of sinister joy.

ГўВҖВңSwear, then,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, joining the hands of Morrel and
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңswear that you will spare the honor of my house, and leave
me to avenge my child.ГўВҖВқ

DГўВҖВҷAvrigny turned round and uttered a very feeble ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ but Morrel,
disengaging his hand, rushed to the bed, and after having pressed the
cold lips of Valentine with his own, hurriedly left, uttering a long,
deep groan of despair and anguish.

We have before stated that all the servants had fled. M. de Villefort
was therefore obliged to request M. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny to superintend all the
arrangements consequent upon a death in a large city, more especially a
death under such suspicious circumstances.

It was something terrible to witness the silent agony, the mute despair
of Noirtier, whose tears silently rolled down his cheeks. Villefort
retired to his study, and dГўВҖВҷAvrigny left to summon the doctor of the
mayoralty, whose office it is to examine bodies after decease, and who
is expressly named ГўВҖВңthe doctor of the dead.ГўВҖВқ M. Noirtier could not be
persuaded to quit his grandchild. At the end of a quarter of an hour M.
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny returned with his associate; they found the outer gate
closed, and not a servant remaining in the house; Villefort himself was
obliged to open to them. But he stopped on the landing; he had not the
courage to again visit the death chamber. The two doctors, therefore,
entered the room alone. Noirtier was near the bed, pale, motionless,
and silent as the corpse. The district doctor approached with the
indifference of a man accustomed to spend half his time amongst the
dead; he then lifted the sheet which was placed over the face, and just
unclosed the lips.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, ГўВҖВңshe is indeed dead, poor child!ГўВҖВқ

50099m



ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ answered the doctor laconically, dropping the sheet he had
raised. Noirtier uttered a kind of hoarse, rattling sound; the old
manГўВҖВҷs eyes sparkled, and the good doctor understood that he wished to
behold his child. He therefore approached the bed, and while his
companion was dipping the fingers with which he had touched the lips of
the corpse in chloride of lime, he uncovered the calm and pale face,
which looked like that of a sleeping angel.

A tear, which appeared in the old manГўВҖВҷs eye, expressed his thanks to
the doctor. The doctor of the dead then laid his permit on the corner
of the table, and having fulfilled his duty, was conducted out by
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny. Villefort met them at the door of his study; having in a few
words thanked the district doctor, he turned to dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, and said:

ГўВҖВңAnd now the priest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs there any particular priest you wish to pray with Valentine?ГўВҖВқ asked
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңfetch the nearest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe nearest,ГўВҖВқ said the district doctor, ГўВҖВңis a good Italian abbГғВ©, who
lives next door to you. Shall I call on him as I pass?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDГўВҖВҷAvrigny,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңbe so kind, I beseech you, as to
accompany this gentleman. Here is the key of the door, so that you can
go in and out as you please; you will bring the priest with you, and
will oblige me by introducing him into my childГўВҖВҷs room.ГўВҖВқ

50101m



ГўВҖВңDo you wish to see him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI only wish to be alone. You will excuse me, will you not? A priest
can understand a fatherГўВҖВҷs grief.ГўВҖВқ

And M. de Villefort, giving the key to dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, again bade farewell
to the strange doctor, and retired to his study, where he began to
work. For some temperaments work is a remedy for all afflictions.

As the doctors entered the street, they saw a man in a cassock standing
on the threshold of the next door.

ГўВҖВңThis is the abbГғВ© of whom I spoke,ГўВҖВқ said the doctor to dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.
DГўВҖВҷAvrigny accosted the priest.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңare you disposed to confer a great obligation on an
unhappy father who has just lost his daughter? I mean M. de Villefort,
the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said the priest, in a marked Italian accent; ГўВҖВңyes, I have heard
that death is in that house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I need not tell you what kind of service he requires of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was about to offer myself, sir,ГўВҖВқ said the priest; ГўВҖВңit is our mission
to forestall our duties.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is a young girl.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it, sir; the servants who fled from the house informed me. I
also know that her name is Valentine, and I have already prayed for
her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, sir,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny; ГўВҖВңsince you have commenced your sacred
office, deign to continue it. Come and watch by the dead, and all the
wretched family will be grateful to you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am going, sir; and I do not hesitate to say that no prayers will be
more fervent than mine.ГўВҖВқ

DГўВҖВҷAvrigny took the priestГўВҖВҷs hand, and without meeting Villefort, who
was engaged in his study, they reached ValentineГўВҖВҷs room, which on the
following night was to be occupied by the undertakers. On entering the
room, NoirtierГўВҖВҷs eyes met those of the abbГғВ©, and no doubt he read some
particular expression in them, for he remained in the room. DГўВҖВҷAvrigny
recommended the attention of the priest to the living as well as to the
dead, and the abbГғВ© promised to devote his prayers to Valentine and his
attentions to Noirtier.

In order, doubtless, that he might not be disturbed while fulfilling
his sacred mission, the priest rose as soon as dГўВҖВҷAvrigny departed, and
not only bolted the door through which the doctor had just left, but
also that leading to Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs room.



 Chapter 104. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ Signature

The next morning dawned dull and cloudy. During the night the
undertakers had executed their melancholy office, and wrapped the
corpse in the winding-sheet, which, whatever may be said about the
equality of death, is at least a last proof of the luxury so pleasing
in life. This winding-sheet was nothing more than a beautiful piece of
cambric, which the young girl had bought a fortnight before.

During the evening two men, engaged for the purpose, had carried
Noirtier from ValentineГўВҖВҷs room into his own, and contrary to all
expectation there was no difficulty in withdrawing him from his child.
The AbbГғВ© Busoni had watched till daylight, and then left without
calling anyone. DГўВҖВҷAvrigny returned about eight oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning;
he met Villefort on his way to NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room, and accompanied him to
see how the old man had slept. They found him in the large armchair,
which served him for a bed, enjoying a calm, nay, almost a smiling
sleep. They both stood in amazement at the door.

ГўВҖВңSee,ГўВҖВқ said dГўВҖВҷAvrigny to Villefort, ГўВҖВңnature knows how to alleviate the
deepest sorrow. No one can say that M. Noirtier did not love his child,
and yet he sleeps.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you are right,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort, surprised; ГўВҖВңhe sleeps, indeed!
And this is the more strange, since the least contradiction keeps him
awake all night.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGrief has stunned him,ГўВҖВқ replied dГўВҖВҷAvrigny; and they both returned
thoughtfully to the procureurГўВҖВҷs study.

ГўВҖВңSee, I have not slept,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, showing his undisturbed bed;
ГўВҖВңgrief does not stun me. I have not been in bed for two nights; but
then look at my desk; see what I have written during these two days and
nights. I have filled those papers, and have made out the accusation
against the assassin Benedetto. Oh, work, work,ГўВҖВ”my passion, my joy, my
delight,ГўВҖВ”it is for thee to alleviate my sorrows!ГўВҖВқ and he convulsively
grasped the hand of dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.

ГўВҖВңDo you require my services now?ГўВҖВқ asked dГўВҖВҷAvrigny.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort; ГўВҖВңonly return again at eleven oГўВҖВҷclock; at twelve
theГўВҖВ”theГўВҖВ”oh, Heavens, my poor, poor child!ГўВҖВқ and the procureur again
becoming a man, lifted up his eyes and groaned.

ГўВҖВңShall you be present in the reception-room?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; I have a cousin who has undertaken this sad office. I shall work,
doctorГўВҖВ”when I work I forget everything.ГўВҖВқ

And, indeed, no sooner had the doctor left the room, than he was again
absorbed in work. On the doorsteps dГўВҖВҷAvrigny met the cousin whom
Villefort had mentioned, a personage as insignificant in our story as
in the world he occupiedГўВҖВ”one of those beings designed from their birth
to make themselves useful to others. He was punctual, dressed in black,
with crape around his hat, and presented himself at his cousinГўВҖВҷs with a
face made up for the occasion, and which he could alter as might be
required.

At eleven oГўВҖВҷclock the mourning-coaches rolled into the paved court, and
the Rue du Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ© was filled with a crowd of idlers,
equally pleased to witness the festivities or the mourning of the rich,
and who rush with the same avidity to a funeral procession as to the
marriage of a duchess.

Gradually the reception-room filled, and some of our old friends made
their appearanceГўВҖВ”we mean Debray, ChГғВўteau-Renaud, and Beauchamp,
accompanied by all the leading men of the day at the bar, in
literature, or the army, for M. de Villefort moved in the first
Parisian circles, less owing to his social position than to his
personal merit.

The cousin standing at the door ushered in the guests, and it was
rather a relief to the indifferent to see a person as unmoved as
themselves, and who did not exact a mournful face or force tears, as
would have been the case with a father, a brother, or a lover. Those
who were acquainted soon formed into little groups. One of them was
made of Debray, ChГғВўteau-Renaud, and Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңPoor girl,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, like the rest, paying an involuntary tribute
to the sad event,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңpoor girl, so young, so rich, so beautiful! Could
you have imagined this scene, ChГғВўteau-Renaud, when we saw her, at the
most three weeks ago, about to sign that contract?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, no,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDid you know her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI spoke to her once or twice at Madame de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs, among the rest;
she appeared to me charming, though rather melancholy. Where is her
stepmother? Do you know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe is spending the day with the wife of the worthy gentleman who is
receiving us.ГўВҖВқ

50105m



ГўВҖВңWho is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhom do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe gentleman who receives us? Is he a deputy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no. I am condemned to witness those gentlemen every day,ГўВҖВқ said
Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңbut he is perfectly unknown to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you mentioned this death in your paper?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt has been mentioned, but the article is not mine; indeed, I doubt if
it will please M. Villefort, for it says that if four successive deaths
had happened anywhere else than in the house of the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney, he
would have interested himself somewhat more about it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңDr. dГўВҖВҷAvrigny, who attends my mother,
declares he is in despair about it. But whom are you seeking, Debray?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am seeking the Count of Monte CristoГўВҖВқ said the young man.

ГўВҖВңI met him on the boulevard, on my way here,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp. ГўВҖВңI think
he is about to leave Paris; he was going to his banker.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis banker? Danglars is his banker, is he not?ГўВҖВқ asked ChГғВўteau-Renaud
of Debray.

ГўВҖВңI believe so,ГўВҖВқ replied the secretary with slight uneasiness. ГўВҖВңBut
Monte Cristo is not the only one I miss here; I do not see Morrel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMorrel? Do they know him?ГўВҖВқ asked ChГғВўteau-Renaud. ГўВҖВңI think he has only
been introduced to Madame de Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, he ought to have been here,ГўВҖВқ said Debray; ГўВҖВңI wonder what will
be talked about tonight; this funeral is the news of the day. But hush,
here comes our minister of justice; he will feel obliged to make some
little speech to the cousin,ГўВҖВқ and the three young men drew near to
listen.

Beauchamp told the truth when he said that on his way to the funeral he
had met Monte Cristo, who was directing his steps towards the Rue de la
ChaussГғВ©e dГўВҖВҷAntin, to M. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ. The banker saw the carriage of the
count enter the courtyard, and advanced to meet him with a sad, though
affable smile.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said he, extending his hand to Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI suppose you
have come to sympathize with me, for indeed misfortune has taken
possession of my house. When I perceived you, I was just asking myself
whether I had not wished harm towards those poor Morcerfs, which would
have justified the proverb of ГўВҖВҳHe who wishes misfortunes to happen to
others experiences them himself.ГўВҖВҷ Well, on my word of honor, I
answered, ГўВҖВҳNo!ГўВҖВҷ I wished no ill to Morcerf; he was a little proud,
perhaps, for a man who like myself has risen from nothing; but we all
have our faults. Do you know, count, that persons of our time of
lifeГўВҖВ”not that you belong to the class, you are still a young man,ГўВҖВ”but
as I was saying, persons of our time of life have been very unfortunate
this year. For example, look at the puritanical procureur, who has just
lost his daughter, and in fact nearly all his family, in so singular a
manner; Morcerf dishonored and dead; and then myself covered with
ridicule through the villany of Benedetto; besidesГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBesides what?ГўВҖВқ asked the Count.

ГўВҖВңAlas, do you not know?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat new calamity?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy daughterГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEugГғВ©nie has left us!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood heavens, what are you telling me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe truth, my dear count. Oh, how happy you must be in not having
either wife or children!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed I do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd so Mademoiselle DanglarsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe could not endure the insult offered to us by that wretch, so she
asked permission to travel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd is she gone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe other night she left.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith Madame Danglars?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, with a relation. But still, we have quite lost our dear EugГғВ©nie;
for I doubt whether her pride will ever allow her to return to France.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, baron,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңfamily griefs, or indeed any other
affliction which would crush a man whose child was his only treasure,
are endurable to a millionaire. Philosophers may well say, and
practical men will always support the opinion, that money mitigates
many trials; and if you admit the efficacy of this sovereign balm, you
ought to be very easily consoledГўВҖВ”you, the king of finance, the focus of
immeasurable power.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars looked at him askance, as though to ascertain whether he spoke
seriously.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ he answered, ГўВҖВңif a fortune brings consolation, I ought to be
consoled; I am rich.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo rich, dear sir, that your fortune resembles the pyramids; if you
wished to demolish them you could not, and if it were possible, you
would not dare!ГўВҖВқ

Danglars smiled at the good-natured pleasantry of the count. ГўВҖВңThat
reminds me,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңthat when you entered I was on the point of
signing five little bonds; I have already signed two: will you allow me
to do the same to the others?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray do so.ГўВҖВқ

There was a momentГўВҖВҷs silence, during which the noise of the bankerГўВҖВҷs
pen was alone heard, while Monte Cristo examined the gilt mouldings on
the ceiling.

ГўВҖВңAre they Spanish, Haitian, or Neapolitan bonds?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, smiling, ГўВҖВңthey are bonds on the bank of France,
payable to bearer. Stay, count,ГўВҖВқ he added, ГўВҖВңyou, who may be called the
emperor, if I claim the title of king of finance, have you many pieces
of paper of this size, each worth a million?ГўВҖВқ

The count took into his hands the papers, which Danglars had so proudly
presented to him, and read:ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳTo the Governor of the Bank. Please pay to my order, from the fund
deposited by me, the sum of a million, and charge the same to my
account.

ГўВҖВңBaron Danglars.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne, two, three, four, five,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңfive millionsГўВҖВ”why
what a CrГ…В“sus you are!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is how I transact business,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңIt is really wonderful,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңabove all, if, as I suppose,
it is payable at sight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is, indeed,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңIt is a fine thing to have such credit; really, it is only in France
these things are done. Five millions on five little scraps of paper!ГўВҖВ”it
must be seen to be believed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do not doubt it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou say so with an accentГўВҖВ”stay, you shall be convinced; take my clerk
to the bank, and you will see him leave it with an order on the
Treasury for the same sum.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo folding the five notes, ГўВҖВңmost decidedly not;
the thing is so curious, I will make the experiment myself. I am
credited on you for six millions. I have drawn nine hundred thousand
francs, you therefore still owe me five millions and a hundred thousand
francs. I will take the five scraps of paper that I now hold as bonds,
with your signature alone, and here is a receipt in full for the six
millions between us. I had prepared it beforehand, for I am much in
want of money today.ГўВҖВқ

And Monte Cristo placed the bonds in his pocket with one hand, while
with the other he held out the receipt to Danglars. If a thunderbolt
had fallen at the bankerГўВҖВҷs feet, he could not have experienced greater
terror.

ГўВҖВңWhat,ГўВҖВқ he stammered, ГўВҖВңdo you mean to keep that money? Excuse me,
excuse me, but I owe this money to the charity fund,ГўВҖВ”a deposit which I
promised to pay this morning.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, well, then,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI am not particular about these
five notes, pay me in a different form; I wished, from curiosity, to
take these, that I might be able to say that without any advice or
preparation the house of Danglars had paid me five millions without a
minuteГўВҖВҷs delay; it would have been remarkable. But here are your bonds;
pay me differently;ГўВҖВқ and he held the bonds towards Danglars, who seized
them like a vulture extending its claws to withhold the food that is
being wrested from its grasp.

Suddenly he rallied, made a violent effort to restrain himself, and
then a smile gradually widened the features of his disturbed
countenance.

50109m



ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңyour receipt is money.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh dear, yes; and if you were at Rome, the house of Thomson & French
would make no more difficulty about paying the money on my receipt than
you have just done.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPardon me, count, pardon me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen I may keep this money?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, while the perspiration started from the roots of
his hair. ГўВҖВңYes, keep itГўВҖВ”keep it.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo replaced the notes in his pocket with that indescribable
expression which seemed to say, ГўВҖВңCome, reflect; if you repent there is
still time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңno, decidedly no; keep my signatures. But you
know none are so formal as bankers in transacting business; I intended
this money for the charity fund, and I seemed to be robbing them if I
did not pay them with these precise bonds. How absurdГўВҖВ”as if one crown
were not as good as another. Excuse me;ГўВҖВқ and he began to laugh loudly,
but nervously.

ГўВҖВңCertainly, I excuse you,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo graciously, ГўВҖВңand pocket
them.ГўВҖВқ And he placed the bonds in his pocket-book.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңthere is still a sum of one hundred thousand
francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, a mere nothing,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңThe balance would come to
about that sum; but keep it, and we shall be quits.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңare you speaking seriously?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI never joke with bankers,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo in a freezing manner,
which repelled impertinence; and he turned to the door, just as the
valet de chambre announced:

ГўВҖВңM. de Boville, Receiver-General of the charities.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңI think I arrived just in time to
obtain your signatures, or they would have been disputed with me.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars again became pale, and hastened to conduct the count out.
Monte Cristo exchanged a ceremonious bow with M. de Boville, who was
standing in the waiting-room, and who was introduced into DanglarsГўВҖВҷ
room as soon as the count had left.

The countГўВҖВҷs serious face was illumined by a faint smile, as he noticed
the portfolio which the receiver-general held in his hand. At the door
he found his carriage, and was immediately driven to the bank.
Meanwhile Danglars, repressing all emotion, advanced to meet the
receiver-general. We need not say that a smile of condescension was
stamped upon his lips.

ГўВҖВңGood-morning, creditor,ГўВҖВқ said he; ГўВҖВңfor I wager anything it is the
creditor who visits me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are right, baron,ГўВҖВқ answered M. de Boville; ГўВҖВңthe charities present
themselves to you through me; the widows and orphans depute me to
receive alms to the amount of five millions from you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd yet they say orphans are to be pitied,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, wishing to
prolong the jest. ГўВҖВңPoor things!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere I am in their name,ГўВҖВқ said M. de Boville; ГўВҖВңbut did you receive my
letter yesterday?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have brought my receipt.ГўВҖВқ

50111m



ГўВҖВңMy dear M. de Boville, your widows and orphans must oblige me by
waiting twenty-four hours, since M. de Monte Cristo whom you just saw
leaving hereГўВҖВ”you did see him, I think?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; well?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, M. de Monte Cristo has just carried off their five millions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe count has an unlimited credit upon me; a credit opened by Thomson
& French, of Rome; he came to demand five millions at once, which I
paid him with checks on the bank. My funds are deposited there, and you
can understand that if I draw out ten millions on the same day it will
appear rather strange to the governor. Two days will be a different
thing,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, smiling.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Boville, with a tone of entire incredulity, ГўВҖВңfive millions
to that gentleman who just left, and who bowed to me as though he knew
me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps he knows you, though you do not know him; M. de Monte Cristo
knows everybody.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFive millions!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere is his receipt. Believe your own eyes.ГўВҖВқ M. de Boville took the
paper Danglars presented him, and read:

ГўВҖВңReceived of Baron Danglars the sum of five million one hundred
thousand francs, to be repaid on demand by the house of Thomson &
French of Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is really true,ГўВҖВқ said M. de Boville.

ГўВҖВңDo you know the house of Thomson & French?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I once had business to transact with it to the amount of 200,000
francs; but since then I have not heard it mentioned.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is one of the best houses in Europe,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, carelessly
throwing down the receipt on his desk.

ГўВҖВңAnd he had five millions in your hands alone! Why, this Count of Monte
Cristo must be a nabob?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed I do not know what he is; he has three unlimited creditsГўВҖВ”one on
me, one on Rothschild, one on Lafitte; and, you see,ГўВҖВқ he added
carelessly, ГўВҖВңhe has given me the preference, by leaving a balance of
100,000 francs.ГўВҖВқ

M. de Boville manifested signs of extraordinary admiration.

ГўВҖВңI must visit him,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңand obtain some pious grant from him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, you may make sure of him; his charities alone amount to 20,000
francs a month.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is magnificent! I will set before him the example of Madame de
Morcerf and her son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat example?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey gave all their fortune to the hospitals.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat fortune?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTheir ownГўВҖВ”M. de MorcerfГўВҖВҷs, who is deceased.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor what reason?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause they would not spend money so guiltily acquired.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what are they to live upon?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe mother retires into the country, and the son enters the army.ГўВҖВқ

50113m



ГўВҖВңWell, I must confess, these are scruples.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI registered their deed of gift yesterday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd how much did they possess?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, not muchГўВҖВ”from twelve to thirteen hundred thousand francs. But to
return to our millions.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, in the most natural tone in the world. ГўВҖВңAre
you then pressed for this money?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; for the examination of our cash takes place tomorrow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTomorrow? Why did you not tell me so before? Why, it is as good as a
century! At what hour does the examination take place?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt two oГўВҖВҷclock.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSend at twelve,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, smiling.

M. de Boville said nothing, but nodded his head, and took up the
portfolio.

ГўВҖВңNow I think of it, you can do better,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңHow do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe receipt of M. de Monte Cristo is as good as money; take it to
RothschildГўВҖВҷs or LafitteГўВҖВҷs, and they will take it off your hands at
once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, though payable at Rome?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; it will only cost you a discount of 5,000 or 6,000 francs.ГўВҖВқ

The receiver started back.

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңI prefer waiting till tomorrow. What a
proposition!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thought, perhaps,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars with supreme impertinence, ГўВҖВңthat
you had a deficiency to make up?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ said the receiver.

ГўВҖВңAnd if that were the case it would be worth while to make some
sacrifice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, no, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen it will be tomorrow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but without fail.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, you are laughing at me; send tomorrow at twelve, and the bank
shall be notified.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will come myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBetter still, since it will afford me the pleasure of seeing you.ГўВҖВқ
They shook hands.

ГўВҖВңBy the way,ГўВҖВқ said M. de Boville, ГўВҖВңare you not going to the funeral of
poor Mademoiselle de Villefort, which I met on my road here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said the banker; ГўВҖВңI have appeared rather ridiculous since that
affair of Benedetto, so I remain in the background.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah, you are wrong. How were you to blame in that affair?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListenГўВҖВ”when one bears an irreproachable name, as I do, one is rather
sensitive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEverybody pities you, sir; and, above all, Mademoiselle Danglars!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor EugГғВ©nie!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars; ГўВҖВңdo you know she is going to embrace a
religious life?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas, it is unhappily but too true. The day after the event, she
decided on leaving Paris with a nun of her acquaintance; they are gone
to seek a very strict convent in Italy or Spain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is terrible!ГўВҖВқ and M. de Boville retired with this exclamation,
after expressing acute sympathy with the father. But he had scarcely
left before Danglars, with an energy of action those can alone
understand who have seen Robert Macaire represented by FrГғВ©dГғВ©rick,24
exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңFool!ГўВҖВқ

Then enclosing Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs receipt in a little pocket-book, he
added:ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңYes, come at twelve oГўВҖВҷclock; I shall then be far away.ГўВҖВқ

Then he double-locked his door, emptied all his drawers, collected
about fifty thousand francs in bank-notes, burned several papers, left
others exposed to view, and then commenced writing a letter which he
addressed:

ГўВҖВңTo Madame la Baronne Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will place it on her table myself tonight,ГўВҖВқ he murmured. Then taking
a passport from his drawer he said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңGood, it is available for two
months longer.ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 105. The Cemetery of PГғВЁre-Lachaise

M. de Boville had indeed met the funeral procession which was taking
Valentine to her last home on earth. The weather was dull and stormy, a
cold wind shook the few remaining yellow leaves from the boughs of the
trees, and scattered them among the crowd which filled the boulevards.
M. de Villefort, a true Parisian, considered the cemetery of
PГғВЁre-Lachaise alone worthy of receiving the mortal remains of a
Parisian family; there alone the corpses belonging to him would be
surrounded by worthy associates. He had therefore purchased a vault,
which was quickly occupied by members of his family. On the front of
the monument was inscribed: ГўВҖВңThe families of Saint-MГғВ©ran and
Villefort,ГўВҖВқ for such had been the last wish expressed by poor RenГғВ©e,
ValentineГўВҖВҷs mother. The pompous procession therefore wended its way
towards PГғВЁre-Lachaise from the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©. Having crossed
Paris, it passed through the Faubourg du Temple, then leaving the
exterior boulevards, it reached the cemetery. More than fifty private
carriages followed the twenty mourning-coaches, and behind them more
than five hundred persons joined in the procession on foot.

50117m



These last consisted of all the young people whom ValentineГўВҖВҷs death had
struck like a thunderbolt, and who, notwithstanding the raw chilliness
of the season, could not refrain from paying a last tribute to the
memory of the beautiful, chaste, and adorable girl, thus cut off in the
flower of her youth.

As they left Paris, an equipage with four horses, at full speed, was
seen to draw up suddenly; it contained Monte Cristo. The count left the
carriage and mingled in the crowd who followed on foot. ChГғВўteau-Renaud
perceived him and immediately alighting from his _coupГғВ©_, joined him;
Beauchamp did the same.

The count looked attentively through every opening in the crowd; he was
evidently watching for someone, but his search ended in disappointment.

50119m



ГўВҖВңWhere is Morrel?ГўВҖВқ he asked; ГўВҖВңdo either of these gentlemen know where
he is?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe have already asked that question,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңfor none
of us has seen him.ГўВҖВқ

The count was silent, but continued to gaze around him. At length they
arrived at the cemetery. The piercing eye of Monte Cristo glanced
through clusters of bushes and trees, and was soon relieved from all
anxiety, for seeing a shadow glide between the yew-trees, Monte Cristo
recognized him whom he sought.

One funeral is generally very much like another in this magnificent
metropolis. Black figures are seen scattered over the long white
avenues; the silence of earth and heaven is alone broken by the noise
made by the crackling branches of hedges planted around the monuments;
then follows the melancholy chant of the priests, mingled now and then
with a sob of anguish, escaping from some woman concealed behind a mass
of flowers.

The shadow Monte Cristo had noticed passed rapidly behind the tomb of
AbГғВ©lard and HГғВ©loГғВҜse, placed itself close to the heads of the horses
belonging to the hearse, and following the undertakerГўВҖВҷs men, arrived
with them at the spot appointed for the burial. Each personГўВҖВҷs attention
was occupied. Monte Cristo saw nothing but the shadow, which no one
else observed. Twice the count left the ranks to see whether the object
of his interest had any concealed weapon beneath his clothes. When the
procession stopped, this shadow was recognized as Morrel, who, with his
coat buttoned up to his throat, his face livid, and convulsively
crushing his hat between his fingers, leaned against a tree, situated
on an elevation commanding the mausoleum, so that none of the funeral
details could escape his observation.

Everything was conducted in the usual manner. A few men, the least
impressed of all by the scene, pronounced a discourse, some deploring
this premature death, others expatiating on the grief of the father,
and one very ingenious person quoting the fact that Valentine had
solicited pardon of her father for criminals on whom the arm of justice
was ready to fallГўВҖВ”until at length they exhausted their stores of
metaphor and mournful speeches, elaborate variations on the stanzas of
Malherbe to Du PГғВ©rier.

Monte Cristo heard and saw nothing, or rather he only saw Morrel, whose
calmness had a frightful effect on those who knew what was passing in
his heart.

ГўВҖВңSee,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, pointing out Morrel to Debray. ГўВҖВңWhat is he doing
up there?ГўВҖВқ And they called ChГғВўteau-RenaudГўВҖВҷs attention to him.

ГўВҖВңHow pale he is!ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, shuddering.

ГўВҖВңHe is cold,ГўВҖВқ said Debray.

ГўВҖВңNot at all,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, slowly; ГўВҖВңI think he is violently
agitated. He is very susceptible.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah,ГўВҖВқ said Debray; ГўВҖВңhe scarcely knew Mademoiselle de Villefort; you
said so yourself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTrue. Still I remember he danced three times with her at Madame de
MorcerfГўВҖВҷs. Do you recollect that ball, count, where you produced such
an effect?ГўВҖВқ

50121m



ГўВҖВңNo, I do not,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, without even knowing of what or
to whom he was speaking, so much was he occupied in watching Morrel,
who was holding his breath with emotion.

ГўВҖВңThe discourse is over; farewell, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said the count,
unceremoniously.

And he disappeared without anyone seeing whither he went.

The funeral being over, the guests returned to Paris. ChГғВўteau-Renaud
looked for a moment for Morrel; but while they were watching the
departure of the count, Morrel had quitted his post, and
ChГғВўteau-Renaud, failing in his search, joined Debray and Beauchamp.

Monte Cristo concealed himself behind a large tomb and awaited the
arrival of Morrel, who by degrees approached the tomb now abandoned by
spectators and workmen. Morrel threw a glance around, but before it
reached the spot occupied by Monte Cristo the latter had advanced yet
nearer, still unperceived. The young man knelt down. The count, with
outstretched neck and glaring eyes, stood in an attitude ready to
pounce upon Morrel upon the first occasion. Morrel bent his head till
it touched the stone, then clutching the grating with both hands, he
murmured:

ГўВҖВңOh, Valentine!ГўВҖВқ

The countГўВҖВҷs heart was pierced by the utterance of these two words; he
stepped forward, and touching the young manГўВҖВҷs shoulder, said:

ГўВҖВңI was looking for you, my friend.ГўВҖВқ Monte Cristo expected a burst of
passion, but he was deceived, for Morrel turning round, said calmly,ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңYou see I was praying.ГўВҖВқ The scrutinizing glance of the count searched
the young man from head to foot. He then seemed more easy.

ГўВҖВңShall I drive you back to Paris?ГўВҖВқ he asked.

ГўВҖВңNo, thank you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you wish anything?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLeave me to pray.ГўВҖВқ

The count withdrew without opposition, but it was only to place himself
in a situation where he could watch every movement of Morrel, who at
length arose, brushed the dust from his knees, and turned towards
Paris, without once looking back. He walked slowly down the Rue de la
Roquette. The count, dismissing his carriage, followed him about a
hundred paces behind. Maximilian crossed the canal and entered the Rue
Meslay by the boulevards.

Five minutes after the door had been closed on MorrelГўВҖВҷs entrance, it
was again opened for the count. Julie was at the entrance of the
garden, where she was attentively watching Penelon, who, entering with
zeal into his profession of gardener, was very busy grafting some
Bengal roses. ГўВҖВңAh, count,ГўВҖВқ she exclaimed, with the delight manifested
by every member of the family whenever he visited the Rue Meslay.

ГўВҖВңMaximilian has just returned, has he not, madame?ГўВҖВқ asked the count.

50123m



ГўВҖВңYes, I think I saw him pass; but pray, call Emmanuel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, madame, but I must go up to MaximilianГўВҖВҷs room this
instant,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI have something of the greatest
importance to tell him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo, then,ГўВҖВқ she said with a charming smile, which accompanied him until
he had disappeared.

Monte Cristo soon ran up the staircase conducting from the ground floor
to MaximilianГўВҖВҷs room; when he reached the landing he listened
attentively, but all was still. Like many old houses occupied by a
single family, the room door was panelled with glass; but it was
locked, Maximilian was shut in, and it was impossible to see what was
passing in the room, because a red curtain was drawn before the glass.
The countГўВҖВҷs anxiety was manifested by a bright color which seldom
appeared on the face of that imperturbable man.

ГўВҖВңWhat shall I do!ГўВҖВқ he uttered, and reflected for a moment; ГўВҖВңshall I
ring? No, the sound of a bell, announcing a visitor, will but
accelerate the resolution of one in MaximilianГўВҖВҷs situation, and then
the bell would be followed by a louder noise.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo trembled from head to foot and as if his determination had
been taken with the rapidity of lightning, he struck one of the panes
of glass with his elbow; the glass was shivered to atoms, then
withdrawing the curtain he saw Morrel, who had been writing at his
desk, bound from his seat at the noise of the broken window.

ГўВҖВңI beg a thousand pardons,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthere is nothing the
matter, but I slipped down and broke one of your panes of glass with my
elbow. Since it is opened, I will take advantage of it to enter your
room; do not disturb yourselfГўВҖВ”do not disturb yourself!ГўВҖВқ

And passing his hand through the broken glass, the count opened the
door. Morrel, evidently discomposed, came to meet Monte Cristo less
with the intention of receiving him than to exclude his entry.

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, rubbing his elbow, ГўВҖВңitГўВҖВҷs all your
servantГўВҖВҷs fault; your stairs are so polished, it is like walking on
glass.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you hurt, sir?ГўВҖВқ coldly asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңI believe not. But what are you about there? You were writing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour fingers are stained with ink.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, true, I was writing. I do sometimes, soldier though I am.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo advanced into the room; Maximilian was obliged to let him
pass, but he followed him.

ГўВҖВңYou were writing?ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo with a searching look.

ГўВҖВңI have already had the honor of telling you I was,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

The count looked around him.

ГўВҖВңYour pistols are beside your desk,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, pointing with
his finger to the pistols on the table.

ГўВҖВңI am on the point of starting on a journey,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel
disdainfully.

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Monte Cristo in a tone of exquisite sweetness.

ГўВҖВңSir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy friend, my dear Maximilian, do not make a hasty resolution, I
entreat you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI make a hasty resolution?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, shrugging his shoulders; ГўВҖВңis
there anything extraordinary in a journey?ГўВҖВқ

50125m



ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңlet us both lay aside the mask we have
assumed. You no more deceive me with that false calmness than I impose
upon you with my frivolous solicitude. You can understand, can you not,
that to have acted as I have done, to have broken that glass, to have
intruded on the solitude of a friendГўВҖВ”you can understand that, to have
done all this, I must have been actuated by real uneasiness, or rather
by a terrible conviction. Morrel, you are going to destroy yourself!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIndeed, count,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, shuddering; ГўВҖВңwhat has put this into your
head?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI tell you that you are about to destroy yourself,ГўВҖВқ continued the
count, ГўВҖВңand here is proof of what I say;ГўВҖВқ and, approaching the desk, he
removed the sheet of paper which Morrel had placed over the letter he
had begun, and took the latter in his hands.

Morrel rushed forward to tear it from him, but Monte Cristo perceiving
his intention, seized his wrist with his iron grasp.

ГўВҖВңYou wish to destroy yourself,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңyou have written it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, changing his expression of calmness for one of
violenceГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңwell, and if I do intend to turn this pistol against myself,
who shall prevent meГўВҖВ”who will dare prevent me? All my hopes are
blighted, my heart is broken, my life a burden, everything around me is
sad and mournful; earth has become distasteful to me, and human voices
distract me. It is a mercy to let me die, for if I live I shall lose my
reason and become mad. When, sir, I tell you all this with tears of
heartfelt anguish, can you reply that I am wrong, can you prevent my
putting an end to my miserable existence? Tell me, sir, could you have
the courage to do so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, with a calmness which contrasted
strangely with the young manГўВҖВҷs excitement; ГўВҖВңyes, I would do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel, with increasing anger and reproachГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyou, who
have deceived me with false hopes, who have cheered and soothed me with
vain promises, when I might, if not have saved her, at least have seen
her die in my arms! You, who pretend to understand everything, even the
hidden sources of knowledge,ГўВҖВ”and who enact the part of a guardian angel
upon earth, and could not even find an antidote to a poison
administered to a young girl! Ah, sir, indeed you would inspire me with
pity, were you not hateful in my eyes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMorrelГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; you tell me to lay aside the mask, and I will do so, be
satisfied! When you spoke to me at the cemetery, I answered youГўВҖВ”my
heart was softened; when you arrived here, I allowed you to enter. But
since you abuse my confidence, since you have devised a new torture
after I thought I had exhausted them all, then, Count of Monte Cristo
my pretended benefactorГўВҖВ”then, Count of Monte Cristo, the universal
guardian, be satisfied, you shall witness the death of your friend;ГўВҖВқ
and Morrel, with a maniacal laugh, again rushed towards the pistols.

ГўВҖВңAnd I again repeat, you shall not commit suicide.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPrevent me, then!ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel, with another struggle, which, like
the first, failed in releasing him from the countГўВҖВҷs iron grasp.

ГўВҖВңI will prevent you.ГўВҖВқ

50127m



ГўВҖВңAnd who are you, then, that arrogate to yourself this tyrannical right
over free and rational beings?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho am I?ГўВҖВқ repeated Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңListen; I am the only man in the
world having the right to say to you, ГўВҖВҳMorrel, your fatherГўВҖВҷs son shall
not die today;ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ and Monte Cristo, with an expression of majesty and
sublimity, advanced with arms folded toward the young man, who,
involuntarily overcome by the commanding manner of this man, recoiled a
step.

ГўВҖВңWhy do you mention my father?ГўВҖВқ stammered he; ГўВҖВңwhy do you mingle a
recollection of him with the affairs of today?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause I am he who saved your fatherГўВҖВҷs life when he wished to destroy
himself, as you do todayГўВҖВ”because I am the man who sent the purse to
your young sister, and the _Pharaon_ to old MorrelГўВҖВ”because I am the
Edmond DantГғВЁs who nursed you, a child, on my knees.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel made another step back, staggering, breathless, crushed; then
all his strength give way, and he fell prostrate at the feet of Monte
Cristo. Then his admirable nature underwent a complete and sudden
revulsion; he arose, rushed out of the room and to the stairs,
exclaiming energetically, ГўВҖВңJulie, JulieГўВҖВ”Emmanuel, Emmanuel!ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo endeavored also to leave, but Maximilian would have died
rather than relax his hold of the handle of the door, which he closed
upon the count. Julie, Emmanuel, and some of the servants, ran up in
alarm on hearing the cries of Maximilian. Morrel seized their hands,
and opening the door exclaimed in a voice choked with sobs:

ГўВҖВңOn your kneesГўВҖВ”on your kneesГўВҖВ”he is our benefactorГўВҖВ”the saviour of our
father! He isГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

He would have added ГўВҖВңEdmond DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ but the count seized his arm and
prevented him.

Julie threw herself into the arms of the count; Emmanuel embraced him
as a guardian angel; Morrel again fell on his knees, and struck the
ground with his forehead. Then the iron-hearted man felt his heart
swell in his breast; a flame seemed to rush from his throat to his
eyes, he bent his head and wept. For a while nothing was heard in the
room but a succession of sobs, while the incense from their grateful
hearts mounted to heaven. Julie had scarcely recovered from her deep
emotion when she rushed out of the room, descended to the next floor,
ran into the drawing-room with childlike joy and raised the crystal
globe which covered the purse given by the unknown of the AllГғВ©es de
Meilhan. Meanwhile, Emmanuel in a broken voice said to the count:

ГўВҖВңOh, count, how could you, hearing us so often speak of our unknown
benefactor, seeing us pay such homage of gratitude and adoration to his
memory,ГўВҖВ”how could you continue so long without discovering yourself to
us? Oh, it was cruel to us, andГўВҖВ”dare I say it?ГўВҖВ”to you also.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen, my friends,ГўВҖВқ said the countГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI may call you so since we have
really been friends for the last eleven yearsГўВҖВ”the discovery of this
secret has been occasioned by a great event which you must never know.
I wished to bury it during my whole life in my own bosom, but your
brother Maximilian wrested it from me by a violence he repents of now,
I am sure.ГўВҖВқ

Then turning around, and seeing that Morrel, still on his knees, had
thrown himself into an armchair, he added in a low voice, pressing
EmmanuelГўВҖВҷs hand significantly, ГўВҖВңWatch over him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy so?ГўВҖВқ asked the young man, surprised.

ГўВҖВңI cannot explain myself; but watch over him.ГўВҖВқ Emmanuel looked around
the room and caught sight of the pistols; his eyes rested on the
weapons, and he pointed to them. Monte Cristo bent his head. Emmanuel
went towards the pistols.

ГўВҖВңLeave them,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. Then walking towards Morrel, he took
his hand; the tumultuous agitation of the young man was succeeded by a
profound stupor. Julie returned, holding the silken purse in her hands,
while tears of joy rolled down her cheeks, like dewdrops on the rose.

ГўВҖВңHere is the relic,ГўВҖВқ she said; ГўВҖВңdo not think it will be less dear to us
now we are acquainted with our benefactor!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy child,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, coloring, ГўВҖВңallow me to take back that
purse? Since you now know my face, I wish to be remembered alone
through the affection I hope you will grant me.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ said Julie, pressing the purse to her heart, ГўВҖВңno, no, I beseech
you do not take it, for some unhappy day you will leave us, will you
not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have guessed rightly, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo, smiling; ГўВҖВңin
a week I shall have left this country, where so many persons who merit
the vengeance of Heaven lived happily, while my father perished of
hunger and grief.ГўВҖВқ

While announcing his departure, the count fixed his eyes on Morrel, and
remarked that the words, ГўВҖВңI shall have left this country,ГўВҖВқ had failed
to rouse him from his lethargy. He then saw that he must make another
struggle against the grief of his friend, and taking the hands of
Emmanuel and Julie, which he pressed within his own, he said with the
mild authority of a father:

ГўВҖВңMy kind friends, leave me alone with Maximilian.ГўВҖВқ

Julie saw the means offered of carrying off her precious relic, which
Monte Cristo had forgotten. She drew her husband to the door. ГўВҖВңLet us
leave them,ГўВҖВқ she said.

The count was alone with Morrel, who remained motionless as a statue.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Monte-Cristo, touching his shoulder with his finger, ГўВҖВңare
you a man again, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; for I begin to suffer again.ГўВҖВқ

The count frowned, apparently in gloomy hesitation.

ГўВҖВңMaximilian, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңthe ideas you yield to are unworthy
of a Christian.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, do not fear, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, raising his head, and
smiling with a sweet expression on the count; ГўВҖВңI shall no longer
attempt my life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen we are to have no more pistolsГўВҖВ”no more despair?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo; I have found a better remedy for my grief than either a bullet or
a knife.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor fellow, what is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy grief will kill me of itself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, with an expression of melancholy equal
to his own, ГўВҖВңlisten to me. One day, in a moment of despair like yours,
since it led to a similar resolution, I also wished to kill myself; one
day your father, equally desperate, wished to kill himself too. If
anyone had said to your father, at the moment he raised the pistol to
his headГўВҖВ”if anyone had told me, when in my prison I pushed back the
food I had not tasted for three daysГўВҖВ”if anyone had said to either of us
then, ГўВҖВҳLiveГўВҖВ”the day will come when you will be happy, and will bless
life!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”no matter whose voice had spoken, we should have heard him with
the smile of doubt, or the anguish of incredulity,ГўВҖВ”and yet how many
times has your father blessed life while embracing youГўВҖВ”how often have I
myselfГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel, interrupting the count, ГўВҖВңyou had only lost your
liberty, my father had only lost his fortune, but I have lost
Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLook at me,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, with that expression which sometimes
made him so eloquent and persuasiveГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңlook at me. There are no tears in
my eyes, nor is there fever in my veins, yet I see you sufferГўВҖВ”you,
Maximilian, whom I love as my own son. Well, does not this tell you
that in grief, as in life, there is always something to look forward to
beyond? Now, if I entreat, if I order you to live, Morrel, it is in the
conviction that one day you will thank me for having preserved your
life.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, heavens,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңoh, heavensГўВҖВ”what are you saying,
count? Take care. But perhaps you have never loved!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңChild!ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

ГўВҖВңI mean, as I love. You see, I have been a soldier ever since I
attained manhood. I reached the age of twenty-nine without loving, for
none of the feelings I before then experienced merit the appellation of
love. Well, at twenty-nine I saw Valentine; for two years I have loved
her, for two years I have seen written in her heart, as in a book, all
the virtues of a daughter and wife. Count, to possess Valentine would
have been a happiness too infinite, too ecstatic, too complete, too
divine for this world, since it has been denied me; but without
Valentine the earth is desolate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have told you to hope,ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңThen have a care, I repeat, for you seek to persuade me, and if you
succeed I should lose my reason, for I should hope that I could again
behold Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

The count smiled.

ГўВҖВңMy friend, my father,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel with excitement, ГўВҖВңhave a care, I
again repeat, for the power you wield over me alarms me. Weigh your
words before you speak, for my eyes have already become brighter, and
my heart beats strongly; be cautious, or you will make me believe in
supernatural agencies. I must obey you, though you bade me call forth
the dead or walk upon the water.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHope, my friend,ГўВҖВқ repeated the count.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, falling from the height of excitement to the abyss
of despairГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңah, you are playing with me, like those good, or rather
selfish mothers who soothe their children with honeyed words, because
their screams annoy them. No, my friend, I was wrong to caution you; do
not fear, I will bury my grief so deep in my heart, I will disguise it
so, that you shall not even care to sympathize with me. Adieu, my
friend, adieu!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңafter this time you must live with
meГўВҖВ”you must not leave me, and in a week we shall have left France
behind us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you still bid me hope?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI tell you to hope, because I have a method of curing you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount, you render me sadder than before, if it be possible. You think
the result of this blow has been to produce an ordinary grief, and you
would cure it by an ordinary remedyГўВҖВ”change of scene.ГўВҖВқ And Morrel
dropped his head with disdainful incredulity.

ГўВҖВңWhat can I say more?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңI have confidence in the
remedy I propose, and only ask you to permit me to assure you of its
efficacy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount, you prolong my agony.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyour feeble spirit will not even grant me the
trial I request? ComeГўВҖВ”do you know of what the Count of Monte Cristo is
capable? do you know that he holds terrestrial beings under his
control? nay, that he can almost work a miracle? Well, wait for the
miracle I hope to accomplish, orГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOr?ГўВҖВқ repeated Morrel.

ГўВҖВңOr, take care, Morrel, lest I call you ungrateful.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave pity on me, count!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI feel so much pity towards you, Maximilian, thatГўВҖВ”listen to me
attentivelyГўВҖВ”if I do not cure you in a month, to the day, to the very
hour, mark my words, Morrel, I will place loaded pistols before you,
and a cup of the deadliest Italian poisonГўВҖВ”a poison more sure and prompt
than that which has killed Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWill you promise me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; for I am a man, and have suffered like yourself, and also
contemplated suicide; indeed, often since misfortune has left me I have
longed for the delights of an eternal sleep.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you are sure you will promise me this?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, intoxicated.

ГўВҖВңI not only promise, but swear it!ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo extending his
hand.

ГўВҖВңIn a month, then, on your honor, if I am not consoled, you will let me
take my life into my own hands, and whatever may happen you will not
call me ungrateful?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn a month, to the day, the very hour and the date is a sacred one,
Maximilian. I do not know whether you remember that this is the 5th of
September; it is ten years today since I saved your fatherГўВҖВҷs life, who
wished to die.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel seized the countГўВҖВҷs hand and kissed it; the count allowed him to
pay the homage he felt due to him.

ГўВҖВңIn a month you will find on the table, at which we shall be then
sitting, good pistols and a delicious draught; but, on the other hand,
you must promise me not to attempt your life before that time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I also swear it!ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo drew the young man towards him, and pressed him for some
time to his heart. ГўВҖВңAnd now,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңafter today, you will come and
live with me; you can occupy HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs apartment, and my daughter will
at least be replaced by my son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңwhat has become of her?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe departed last night.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo leave you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo wait for me. Hold yourself ready then to join me at the
Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, and lead me out of this house without anyone seeing my
departure.ГўВҖВқ

Maximilian hung his head, and obeyed with childlike reverence.



 Chapter 106. Dividing the Proceeds

The apartment on the first floor of the house in the Rue
Saint-Germain-des-PrГғВ©s, where Albert de Morcerf had selected a home for
his mother, was let to a very mysterious person. This was a man whose
face the concierge himself had never seen, for in the winter his chin
was buried in one of the large red handkerchiefs worn by gentlemenГўВҖВҷs
coachmen on a cold night, and in the summer he made a point of always
blowing his nose just as he approached the door. Contrary to custom,
this gentleman had not been watched, for as the report ran that he was
a person of high rank, and one who would allow no impertinent
interference, his _incognito_ was strictly respected.

His visits were tolerably regular, though occasionally he appeared a
little before or after his time, but generally, both in summer and
winter, he took possession of his apartment about four oГўВҖВҷclock, though
he never spent the night there. At half-past three in the winter the
fire was lighted by the discreet servant, who had the superintendence
of the little apartment, and in the summer ices were placed on the
table at the same hour. At four oГўВҖВҷclock, as we have already stated, the
mysterious personage arrived.

Twenty minutes afterwards a carriage stopped at the house, a lady
alighted in a black or dark blue dress, and always thickly veiled; she
passed like a shadow through the lodge, and ran upstairs without a
sound escaping under the touch of her light foot. No one ever asked her
where she was going. Her face, therefore, like that of the gentleman,
was perfectly unknown to the two concierges, who were perhaps
unequalled throughout the capital for discretion. We need not say she
stopped at the first floor. Then she tapped in a peculiar manner at a
door, which after being opened to admit her was again fastened, and
curiosity penetrated no farther. They used the same precautions in
leaving as in entering the house. The lady always left first, and as
soon as she had stepped into her carriage, it drove away, sometimes
towards the right hand, sometimes to the left; then about twenty
minutes afterwards the gentleman would also leave, buried in his cravat
or concealed by his handkerchief.

The day after Monte Cristo had called upon Danglars, the mysterious
lodger entered at ten oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning instead of four in the
afternoon. Almost directly afterwards, without the usual interval of
time, a cab arrived, and the veiled lady ran hastily upstairs. The door
opened, but before it could be closed, the lady exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңOh, LucienГўВҖВ”oh, my friend!ГўВҖВқ

The concierge therefore heard for the first time that the lodgerГўВҖВҷs name
was Lucien; still, as he was the very perfection of a door-keeper, he
made up his mind not to tell his wife.

ГўВҖВңWell, what is the matter, my dear?ГўВҖВқ asked the gentleman whose name the
ladyГўВҖВҷs agitation revealed; ГўВҖВңtell me what is the matter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, Lucien, can I confide in you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf course, you know you can do so. But what can be the matter? Your
note of this morning has completely bewildered me. This
precipitationГўВҖВ”this unusual appointment. Come, ease me of my anxiety, or
else frighten me at once.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLucien, a great event has happened!ГўВҖВқ said the lady, glancing
inquiringly at Lucien,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңM. Danglars left last night!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLeft?ГўВҖВ”M. Danglars left? Where has he gone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean? Has he gone intending not to return?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUndoubtedly;ГўВҖВ”at ten oГўВҖВҷclock at night his horses took him to the
barrier of Charenton; there a post-chaise was waiting for himГўВҖВ”he
entered it with his valet de chambre, saying that he was going to
Fontainebleau.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen what did you meanГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStayГўВҖВ”he left a letter for me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA letter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; read it.ГўВҖВқ

And the baroness took from her pocket a letter which she gave to
Debray. Debray paused a moment before reading, as if trying to guess
its contents, or perhaps while making up his mind how to act, whatever
it might contain. No doubt his ideas were arranged in a few minutes,
for he began reading the letter which caused so much uneasiness in the
heart of the baroness, and which ran as follows:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMadame and most faithful wife.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Debray mechanically stopped and looked at the baroness, whose face
became covered with blushes.

ГўВҖВңRead,ГўВҖВқ she said.

Debray continued:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWhen you receive this, you will no longer have a husband. Oh, you
need not be alarmed, you will only have lost him as you have lost your
daughter; I mean that I shall be travelling on one of the thirty or
forty roads leading out of France. I owe you some explanations for my
conduct, and as you are a woman that can perfectly understand me, I
will give them. Listen, then. I received this morning five millions
which I paid away; almost directly afterwards another demand for the
same sum was presented to me; I put this creditor off till tomorrow and
I intend leaving today, to escape that tomorrow, which would be rather
too unpleasant for me to endure. You understand this, do you not, my
most precious wife? I say you understand this, because you are as
conversant with my affairs as I am; indeed, I think you understand them
better, since I am ignorant of what has become of a considerable
portion of my fortune, once very tolerable, while I am sure, madame,
that you know perfectly well. For women have infallible instincts; they
can even explain the marvellous by an algebraic calculation they have
invented; but I, who only understand my own figures, know nothing more
than that one day these figures deceived me. Have you admired the
rapidity of my fall? Have you been slightly dazzled at the sudden
fusion of my ingots? I confess I have seen nothing but the fire; let us
hope you have found some gold among the ashes. With this consoling
idea, I leave you, madame, and most prudent wife, without any
conscientious reproach for abandoning you; you have friends left, and
the ashes I have already mentioned, and above all the liberty I hasten
to restore to you. And here, madame, I must add another word of
explanation. So long as I hoped you were working for the good of our
house and for the fortune of our daughter, I philosophically closed my
eyes; but as you have transformed that house into a vast ruin I will
not be the foundation of another manГўВҖВҷs fortune. You were rich when I
married you, but little respected. Excuse me for speaking so very
candidly, but as this is intended only for ourselves, I do not see why
I should weigh my words. I have augmented our fortune, and it has
continued to increase during the last fifteen years, till extraordinary
and unexpected catastrophes have suddenly overturned it,ГўВҖВ”without any
fault of mine, I can honestly declare. You, madame, have only sought to
increase your own, and I am convinced that you have succeeded. I leave
you, therefore, as I took you,ГўВҖВ”rich, but little respected. Adieu! I
also intend from this time to work on my own account. Accept my
acknowledgments for the example you have set me, and which I intend
following.

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳYour very devoted husband,

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳBaron Danglars.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

The baroness had watched Debray while he read this long and painful
letter, and saw him, notwithstanding his self-control, change color
once or twice. When he had ended the perusal, he folded the letter and
resumed his pensive attitude.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ asked Madame Danglars, with an anxiety easy to be understood.

ГўВҖВңWell, madame?ГўВҖВқ unhesitatingly repeated Debray.

ГўВҖВңWith what ideas does that letter inspire you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is simple enough, madame; it inspires me with the idea that M.
Danglars has left suspiciously.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; but is this all you have to say to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not understand you,ГўВҖВқ said Debray with freezing coldness.

ГўВҖВңHe is gone! Gone, never to return!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, madame, do not think that!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI tell you he will never return. I know his character; he is
inflexible in any resolutions formed for his own interests. If he could
have made any use of me, he would have taken me with him; he leaves me
in Paris, as our separation will conduce to his benefit;ГўВҖВ”therefore he
has gone, and I am free forever,ГўВҖВқ added Madame Danglars, in the same
supplicating tone.

Debray, instead of answering, allowed her to remain in an attitude of
nervous inquiry.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ she said at length, ГўВҖВңdo you not answer me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have but one question to ask you,ГўВҖВ”what do you intend to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was going to ask you,ГўВҖВқ replied the baroness with a beating heart.

ГўВҖВңAh, then, you wish to ask advice of me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I do wish to ask your advice,ГўВҖВқ said Madame Danglars with anxious
expectation.

ГўВҖВңThen if you wish to take my advice,ГўВҖВқ said the young man coldly, ГўВҖВңI
would recommend you to travel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo travel!ГўВҖВқ she murmured.

ГўВҖВңCertainly; as M. Danglars says, you are rich, and perfectly free. In
my opinion, a withdrawal from Paris is absolutely necessary after the
double catastrophe of Mademoiselle DanglarsГўВҖВҷ broken contract and M.
DanglarsГўВҖВҷ disappearance. The world will think you abandoned and poor,
for the wife of a bankrupt would never be forgiven, were she to keep up
an appearance of opulence. You have only to remain in Paris for about a
fortnight, telling the world you are abandoned, and relating the
details of this desertion to your best friends, who will soon spread
the report. Then you can quit your house, leaving your jewels and
giving up your jointure, and everyoneГўВҖВҷs mouth will be filled with
praises of your disinterestedness. They will know you are deserted, and
think you also poor, for I alone know your real financial position, and
am quite ready to give up my accounts as an honest partner.ГўВҖВқ

The dread with which the pale and motionless baroness listened to this,
was equalled by the calm indifference with which Debray had spoken.

ГўВҖВңDeserted?ГўВҖВқ she repeated; ГўВҖВңah, yes, I am, indeed, deserted! You are
right, sir, and no one can doubt my position.ГўВҖВқ

These were the only words that this proud and violently enamoured woman
could utter in response to Debray.

50137m



ГўВҖВңBut then you are rich,ГўВҖВ”very rich, indeed,ГўВҖВқ continued Debray, taking
out some papers from his pocket-book, which he spread upon the table.
Madame Danglars did not see them; she was engaged in stilling the
beatings of her heart, and restraining the tears which were ready to
gush forth. At length a sense of dignity prevailed, and if she did not
entirely master her agitation, she at least succeeded in preventing the
fall of a single tear.

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңit is nearly six months since we have been
associated. You furnished a principal of 100,000 francs. Our
partnership began in the month of April. In May we commenced
operations, and in the course of the month gained 450,000 francs. In
June the profit amounted to 900,000. In July we added 1,700,000
francs,ГўВҖВ”it was, you know, the month of the Spanish bonds. In August we
lost 300,000 francs at the beginning of the month, but on the 13th we
made up for it, and we now find that our accounts, reckoning from the
first day of partnership up to yesterday, when I closed them, showed a
capital of 2,400,000 francs, that is, 1,200,000 for each of us. Now,
madame,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, delivering up his accounts in the methodical
manner of a stockbroker, ГўВҖВңthere are still 80,000 francs, the interest
of this money, in my hands.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said the baroness, ГўВҖВңI thought you never put the money out to
interest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Debray coldly, ГўВҖВңI had your permission to do
so, and I have made use of it. There are, then, 40,000 francs for your
share, besides the 100,000 you furnished me to begin with, making in
all 1,340,000 francs for your portion. Now, madame, I took the
precaution of drawing out your money the day before yesterday; it is
not long ago, you see, and I was in continual expectation of being
called on to deliver up my accounts. There is your money,ГўВҖВ”half in
bank-notes, the other half in checks payable to bearer. I say _there_,
for as I did not consider my house safe enough, or lawyers sufficiently
discreet, and as landed property carries evidence with it, and moreover
since you have no right to possess anything independent of your
husband, I have kept this sum, now your whole fortune, in a chest
concealed under that closet, and for greater security I myself
concealed it there.

ГўВҖВңNow, madame,ГўВҖВқ continued Debray, first opening the closet, then the
chest;ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңnow, madame, here are 800 notes of 1,000 francs each,
resembling, as you see, a large book bound in iron; to this I add a
certificate in the funds of 25,000 francs; then, for the odd cash,
making I think about 110,000 francs, here is a check upon my banker,
who, not being M. Danglars, will pay you the amount, you may rest
assured.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars mechanically took the check, the bond, and the heap of
bank-notes. This enormous fortune made no great appearance on the
table. Madame Danglars, with tearless eyes, but with her breast heaving
with concealed emotion, placed the bank-notes in her bag, put the
certificate and check into her pocket-book, and then, standing pale and
mute, awaited one kind word of consolation.

But she waited in vain.

ГўВҖВңNow, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңyou have a splendid fortune, an income of
about 60,000 livres a year, which is enormous for a woman who cannot
keep an establishment here for a year, at least. You will be able to
indulge all your fancies; besides, should you find your income
insufficient, you can, for the sake of the past, madame, make use of
mine; and I am ready to offer you all I possess, on loan.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, sirГўВҖВ”thank you,ГўВҖВқ replied the baroness; ГўВҖВңyou forget that what
you have just paid me is much more than a poor woman requires, who
intends for some time, at least, to retire from the world.ГўВҖВқ

Debray was, for a moment, surprised, but immediately recovering
himself, he bowed with an air which seemed to say, ГўВҖВңAs you please,
madame.ГўВҖВқ

Madame Danglars had until then, perhaps, hoped for something; but when
she saw the careless bow of Debray, and the glance by which it was
accompanied, together with his significant silence, she raised her
head, and without passion or violence or even hesitation, ran
downstairs, disdaining to address a last farewell to one who could thus
part from her.

ГўВҖВңBah,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, when she had left, ГўВҖВңthese are fine projects! She
will remain at home, read novels, and speculate at cards, since she can
no longer do so on the Bourse.ГўВҖВқ

Then taking up his account book, he cancelled with the greatest care
all the entries of the amounts he had just paid away.

ГўВҖВңI have 1,060,000 francs remaining,ГўВҖВқ he said. ГўВҖВңWhat a pity Mademoiselle
de Villefort is dead! She suited me in every respect, and I would have
married her.ГўВҖВқ

And he calmly waited until the twenty minutes had elapsed after Madame
DanglarsГўВҖВҷ departure before he left the house. During this time he
occupied himself in making figures, with his watch by his side.

AsmodeusГўВҖВ”that diabolical personage, who would have been created by
every fertile imagination if Le Sage had not acquired the priority in
his great masterpieceГўВҖВ”would have enjoyed a singular spectacle, if he
had lifted up the roof of the little house in the Rue
Saint-Germain-des-PrГғВ©s, while Debray was casting up his figures.

Above the room in which Debray had been dividing two millions and a
half with Madame Danglars was another, inhabited by persons who have
played too prominent a part in the incidents we have related for their
appearance not to create some interest.

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs and Albert were in that room.

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs was much changed within the last few days; not that even in
her days of fortune she had ever dressed with the magnificent display
which makes us no longer able to recognize a woman when she appears in
a plain and simple attire; nor indeed, had she fallen into that state
of depression where it is impossible to conceal the garb of misery; no,
the change in MercГғВ©dГғВЁs was that her eye no longer sparkled, her lips no
longer smiled, and there was now a hesitation in uttering the words
which formerly sprang so fluently from her ready wit.

It was not poverty which had broken her spirit; it was not a want of
courage which rendered her poverty burdensome. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, although
deposed from the exalted position she had occupied, lost in the sphere
she had now chosen, like a person passing from a room splendidly
lighted into utter darkness, appeared like a queen, fallen from her
palace to a hovel, and who, reduced to strict necessity, could neither
become reconciled to the earthen vessels she was herself forced to
place upon the table, nor to the humble pallet which had become her
bed.

The beautiful Catalane and noble countess had lost both her proud
glance and charming smile, because she saw nothing but misery around
her; the walls were hung with one of the gray papers which economical
landlords choose as not likely to show the dirt; the floor was
uncarpeted; the furniture attracted the attention to the poor attempt
at luxury; indeed, everything offended eyes accustomed to refinement
and elegance.

Madame de Morcerf had lived there since leaving her house; the
continual silence of the spot oppressed her; still, seeing that Albert
continually watched her countenance to judge the state of her feelings,
she constrained herself to assume a monotonous smile of the lips alone,
which, contrasted with the sweet and beaming expression that usually
shone from her eyes, seemed like ГўВҖВңmoonlight on a statue,ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”yielding
light without warmth.

Albert, too, was ill at ease; the remains of luxury prevented him from
sinking into his actual position. If he wished to go out without
gloves, his hands appeared too white; if he wished to walk through the
town, his boots seemed too highly polished. Yet these two noble and
intelligent creatures, united by the indissoluble ties of maternal and
filial love, had succeeded in tacitly understanding one another, and
economizing their stores, and Albert had been able to tell his mother
without extorting a change of countenance:

ГўВҖВңMother, we have no more money.ГўВҖВқ

50141m



MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had never known misery; she had often, in her youth, spoken of
poverty, but between want and necessity, those synonymous words, there
is a wide difference.

Amongst the Catalans, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs wished for a thousand things, but still
she never really wanted any. So long as the nets were good, they caught
fish; and so long as they sold their fish, they were able to buy twine
for new nets. And then, shut out from friendship, having but one
affection, which could not be mixed up with her ordinary pursuits, she
thought of herselfГўВҖВ”of no one but herself. Upon the little she earned
she lived as well as she could; now there were two to be supported, and
nothing to live upon.

Winter approached. MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had no fire in that cold and naked
roomГўВҖВ”she, who was accustomed to stoves which heated the house from the
hall to the boudoir; she had not even one little flowerГўВҖВ”she whose
apartment had been a conservatory of costly exotics. But she had her
son. Hitherto the excitement of fulfilling a duty had sustained them.
Excitement, like enthusiasm, sometimes renders us unconscious to the
things of earth. But the excitement had calmed down, and they felt
themselves obliged to descend from dreams to reality; after having
exhausted the ideal, they found they must talk of the actual.

ГўВҖВңMother,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Albert, just as Madame Danglars was descending the
stairs, ГўВҖВңlet us reckon our riches, if you please; I want capital to
build my plans upon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCapitalГўВҖВ”nothing!ГўВҖВқ replied MercГғВ©dГғВЁs with a mournful smile.

ГўВҖВңNo, mother,ГўВҖВ”capital 3,000 francs. And I have an idea of our leading a
delightful life upon this 3,000 francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңChild!ГўВҖВқ sighed MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңAlas, dear mother,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, ГўВҖВңI have unhappily spent too
much of your money not to know the value of it. These 3,000 francs are
enormous, and I intend building upon this foundation a miraculous
certainty for the future.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou say this, my dear boy; but do you think we ought to accept these
3,000 francs?ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, coloring.

ГўВҖВңI think so,ГўВҖВқ answered Albert in a firm tone. ГўВҖВңWe will accept them the
more readily, since we have them not here; you know they are buried in
the garden of the little house in the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan, at Marseilles.
With 200 francs we can reach Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith 200 francs?ГўВҖВ”are you sure, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, as for that, I have made inquiries respecting the diligences and
steamboats, and my calculations are made. You will take your place in
the _coupГғВ©_ to ChГғВўlons. You see, mother, I treat you handsomely for
thirty-five francs.ГўВҖВқ

Albert then took a pen, and wrote:


                                                         Frs. _CoupГғВ©_,
                                                         thirty-five
                                                         francs........
                                                         ..............
                                                         ........ 35.
                                                         From ChГғВўlons
                                                         to Lyons you
                                                         will go on by
                                                         the
                                                         steamboat..
                                                         6. From Lyons
                                                         to Avignon
                                                         (still by
                                                         steamboat)....
                                                         ......... 16.
                                                         From Avignon
                                                         to Marseilles,
                                                         seven
                                                         francs........
                                                         .......  7.
                                                         Expenses on
                                                         the road,
                                                         about fifty
                                                         francs........
                                                         ....... 50.
                                                         Total.........
                                                         ..............
                                                         ..............
                                                         ............
                                                         114 frs.

ГўВҖВңLet us put down 120,ГўВҖВқ added Albert, smiling. ГўВҖВңYou see I am generous,
am I not, mother?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut you, my poor child?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI? do you not see that I reserve eighty francs for myself? A young man
does not require luxuries; besides, I know what travelling is.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWith a post-chaise and valet de chambre?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAny way, mother.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, be it so. But these 200 francs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere they are, and 200 more besides. See, I have sold my watch for 100
francs, and the guard and seals for 300. How fortunate that the
ornaments were worth more than the watch. Still the same story of
superfluities! Now I think we are rich, since instead of the 114 francs
we require for the journey we find ourselves in possession of 250.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut we owe something in this house?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThirty francs; but I pay that out of my 150 francs,ГўВҖВ”that is
understood,ГўВҖВ”and as I require only eighty francs for my journey, you see
I am overwhelmed with luxury. But that is not all. What do you say to
this, mother?ГўВҖВқ

And Albert took out of a little pocket-book with golden clasps, a
remnant of his old fancies, or perhaps a tender souvenir from one of
the mysterious and veiled ladies who used to knock at his little
door,ГўВҖВ”Albert took out of this pocket-book a note of 1,000 francs.

ГўВҖВңWhat is this?ГўВҖВқ asked MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

ГўВҖВңA thousand francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut whence have you obtained them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen to me, mother, and do not yield too much to agitation.ГўВҖВқ And
Albert, rising, kissed his mother on both cheeks, then stood looking at
her. ГўВҖВңYou cannot imagine, mother, how beautiful I think you!ГўВҖВқ said the
young man, impressed with a profound feeling of filial love. ГўВҖВңYou are,
indeed, the most beautiful and most noble woman I ever saw!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDear child!ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, endeavoring in vain to restrain a tear
which glistened in the corner of her eye. ГўВҖВңIndeed, you only wanted
misfortune to change my love for you to admiration. I am not unhappy
while I possess my son!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, just so,ГўВҖВқ said Albert; ГўВҖВңhere begins the trial. Do you know the
decision we have come to, mother?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave we come to any?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; it is decided that you are to live at Marseilles, and that I am
to leave for Africa, where I will earn for myself the right to use the
name I now bear, instead of the one I have thrown aside.ГўВҖВқ MercГғВ©dГғВЁs
sighed. ГўВҖВңWell, mother, I yesterday engaged myself as substitute in the
Spahis,ГўВҖВқ25 added the young man, lowering his eyes with a certain
feeling of shame, for even he was unconscious of the sublimity of his
self-abasement. ГўВҖВңI thought my body was my own, and that I might sell
it. I yesterday took the place of another. I sold myself for more than
I thought I was worth,ГўВҖВқ he added, attempting to smile; ГўВҖВңI fetched 2,000
francs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen these 1,000 francsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, shuddering.

ГўВҖВңAre the half of the sum, mother; the other will be paid in a year.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs raised her eyes to heaven with an expression it would be
impossible to describe, and tears, which had hitherto been restrained,
now yielded to her emotion, and ran down her cheeks.

ГўВҖВңThe price of his blood!ГўВҖВқ she murmured.

ГўВҖВңYes, if I am killed,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, laughing. ГўВҖВңBut I assure you,
mother, I have a strong intention of defending my person, and I never
felt half so strong an inclination to live as I do now.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMerciful Heavens!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBesides, mother, why should you make up your mind that I am to be
killed? Has LamoriciГғВЁre, that Ney of the South, been killed? Has
Changarnier been killed? Has Bedeau been killed? Has Morrel, whom we
know, been killed? Think of your joy, mother, when you see me return
with an embroidered uniform! I declare, I expect to look magnificent in
it, and chose that regiment only from vanity.ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs sighed while endeavoring to smile; the devoted mother felt
that she ought not to allow the whole weight of the sacrifice to fall
upon her son.

ГўВҖВңWell, now you understand, mother!ГўВҖВқ continued Albert; ГўВҖВңhere are more
than 4,000 francs settled on you; upon these you can live at least two
years.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think so?ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.

These words were uttered in so mournful a tone that their real meaning
did not escape Albert; he felt his heart beat, and taking his motherГўВҖВҷs
hand within his own he said, tenderly:

ГўВҖВңYes, you will live!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall live!ГўВҖВ”then you will not leave me, Albert?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMother, I must go,ГўВҖВқ said Albert in a firm, calm voice; ГўВҖВңyou love me
too well to wish me to remain useless and idle with you; besides, I
have signed.ГўВҖВқ

50145m



ГўВҖВңYou will obey your own wish and the will of Heaven!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot my own wish, mother, but reasonГўВҖВ”necessity. Are we not two
despairing creatures? What is life to you?ГўВҖВ”Nothing. What is life to
me?ГўВҖВ”Very little without you, mother; for believe me, but for you I
should have ceased to live on the day I doubted my father and renounced
his name. Well, I will live, if you promise me still to hope; and if
you grant me the care of your future prospects, you will redouble my
strength. Then I will go to the governor of Algeria; he has a royal
heart, and is essentially a soldier; I will tell him my gloomy story. I
will beg him to turn his eyes now and then towards me, and if he keep
his word and interest himself for me, in six months I shall be an
officer, or dead. If I am an officer, your fortune is certain, for I
shall have money enough for both, and, moreover, a name we shall both
be proud of, since it will be our own. If I am killedГўВҖВ”well then mother,
you can also die, and there will be an end of our misfortunes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is well,ГўВҖВқ replied MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, with her eloquent glance; ГўВҖВңyou are
right, my love; let us prove to those who are watching our actions that
we are worthy of compassion.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut let us not yield to gloomy apprehensions,ГўВҖВқ said the young man; ГўВҖВңI
assure you we are, or rather we shall be, very happy. You are a woman
at once full of spirit and resignation; I have become simple in my
tastes, and am without passion, I hope. Once in service, I shall be
richГўВҖВ”once in M. DantГғВЁsГўВҖВҷ house, you will be at rest. Let us strive, I
beseech you,ГўВҖВ”let us strive to be cheerful.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, let us strive, for you ought to live, and to be happy, Albert.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd so our division is made, mother,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, affecting
ease of mind. ГўВҖВңWe can now part; come, I shall engage your passage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you, my dear boy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI shall stay here for a few days longer; we must accustom ourselves to
parting. I want recommendations and some information relative to
Africa. I will join you again at Marseilles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, be it soГўВҖВ”let us part,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, folding around her
shoulders the only shawl she had taken away, and which accidentally
happened to be a valuable black cashmere. Albert gathered up his papers
hastily, rang the bell to pay the thirty francs he owed to the
landlord, and offering his arm to his mother, they descended the
stairs.

Someone was walking down before them, and this person, hearing the
rustling of a silk dress, turned around. ГўВҖВңDebray!ГўВҖВқ muttered Albert.

ГўВҖВңYou, Morcerf?ГўВҖВқ replied the secretary, resting on the stairs. Curiosity
had vanquished the desire of preserving his _incognito_, and he was
recognized. It was, indeed, strange in this unknown spot to find the
young man whose misfortunes had made so much noise in Paris.

ГўВҖВңMorcerf!ГўВҖВқ repeated Debray. Then noticing in the dim light the still
youthful and veiled figure of Madame de Morcerf:

ГўВҖВңPardon me,ГўВҖВқ he added with a smile, ГўВҖВңI leave you, Albert.ГўВҖВқ Albert
understood his thoughts.

ГўВҖВңMother,ГўВҖВқ he said, turning towards MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңthis is M. Debray,
secretary of the Minister for the Interior, once a friend of mine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow once?ГўВҖВқ stammered Debray; ГўВҖВңwhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI say so, M. Debray, because I have no friends now, and I ought not to
have any. I thank you for having recognized me, sir.ГўВҖВқ Debray stepped
forward, and cordially pressed the hand of his interlocutor.

ГўВҖВңBelieve me, dear Albert,ГўВҖВқ he said, with all the emotion he was capable
of feeling,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңbelieve me, I feel deeply for your misfortunes, and if in
any way I can serve you, I am yours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Albert, smiling. ГўВҖВңIn the midst of our
misfortunes, we are still rich enough not to require assistance from
anyone. We are leaving Paris, and when our journey is paid, we shall
have 5,000 francs left.ГўВҖВқ

The blood mounted to the temples of Debray, who held a million in his
pocket-book, and unimaginative as he was he could not help reflecting
that the same house had contained two women, one of whom, justly
dishonored, had left it poor with 1,500,000 francs under her cloak,
while the other, unjustly stricken, but sublime in her misfortune, was
yet rich with a few deniers. This parallel disturbed his usual
politeness, the philosophy he witnessed appalled him, he muttered a few
words of general civility and ran downstairs.

That day the ministerГўВҖВҷs clerks and the subordinates had a great deal to
put up with from his ill-humor. But that same night, he found himself
the possessor of a fine house, situated on the Boulevard de la
Madeleine, and an income of 50,000 livres.

The next day, just as Debray was signing the deed, that is about five
oГўВҖВҷclock in the afternoon, Madame de Morcerf, after having
affectionately embraced her son, entered the _coupГғВ©_ of the diligence,
which closed upon her.

A man was hidden in LafitteГўВҖВҷs banking-house, behind one of the little
arched windows which are placed above each desk; he saw MercГғВ©dГғВЁs enter
the diligence, and he also saw Albert withdraw. Then he passed his hand
across his forehead, which was clouded with doubt.

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңhow can I restore the happiness I have taken
away from these poor innocent creatures? God help me!ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 107. The LionsГўВҖВҷ Den

One division of La Force, in which the most dangerous and desperate
prisoners are confined, is called the court of Saint-Bernard. The
prisoners, in their expressive language, have named it the ГўВҖВңLionsГўВҖВҷ
Den,ГўВҖВқ probably because the captives possess teeth which frequently gnaw
the bars, and sometimes the keepers also. It is a prison within a
prison; the walls are double the thickness of the rest. The gratings
are every day carefully examined by jailers, whose herculean
proportions and cold pitiless expression prove them to have been chosen
to reign over their subjects for their superior activity and
intelligence.

The courtyard of this quarter is enclosed by enormous walls, over which
the sun glances obliquely, when it deigns to penetrate into this gulf
of moral and physical deformity. On this paved yard are to be
seen,ГўВҖВ”pacing to and fro from morning till night, pale, careworn, and
haggard, like so many shadows,ГўВҖВ”the men whom justice holds beneath the
steel she is sharpening. There, crouched against the side of the wall
which attracts and retains the most heat, they may be seen sometimes
talking to one another, but more frequently alone, watching the door,
which sometimes opens to call forth one from the gloomy assemblage, or
to throw in another outcast from society.

The court of Saint-Bernard has its own particular apartment for the
reception of guests; it is a long rectangle, divided by two upright
gratings placed at a distance of three feet from one another to prevent
a visitor from shaking hands with or passing anything to the prisoners.
It is a wretched, damp, nay, even horrible spot, more especially when
we consider the agonizing conferences which have taken place between
those iron bars. And yet, frightful though this spot may be, it is
looked upon as a kind of paradise by the men whose days are numbered;
it is so rare for them to leave the LionsГўВҖВҷ Den for any other place than
the barrier Saint-Jacques, the galleys! or solitary confinement.

In the court which we have attempted to describe, and from which a damp
vapor was rising, a young man with his hands in his pockets, who had
excited much curiosity among the inhabitants of the ГўВҖВңDen,ГўВҖВқ might be
seen walking. The cut of his clothes would have made him pass for an
elegant man, if those clothes had not been torn to shreds; still they
did not show signs of wear, and the fine cloth, beneath the careful
hands of the prisoner, soon recovered its gloss in the parts which were
still perfect, for the wearer tried his best to make it assume the
appearance of a new coat. He bestowed the same attention upon the
cambric front of a shirt, which had considerably changed in color since
his entrance into the prison, and he polished his varnished boots with
the corner of a handkerchief embroidered with initials surmounted by a
coronet.

Some of the inmates of the ГўВҖВңLionsГўВҖВҷ DenГўВҖВқ were watching the operations of
the prisonerГўВҖВҷs toilet with considerable interest.

ГўВҖВңSee, the prince is pluming himself,ГўВҖВқ said one of the thieves.

ГўВҖВңHeГўВҖВҷs a fine looking fellow,ГўВҖВқ said another; ГўВҖВңif he had only a comb and
hair-grease, heГўВҖВҷd take the shine off the gentlemen in white kids.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHis coat looks nearly new, and his boots are brilliant. It is pleasant
to have such well-dressed brethren; and those gendarmes behaved
shamefully. What jealousy; to tear such clothes!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe looks like a big-bug,ГўВҖВқ said another; ГўВҖВңdresses in fine style. And,
then, to be here so young! Oh, what larks!ГўВҖВқ

Meanwhile the object of this hideous admiration approached the wicket,
against which one of the keepers was leaning.

ГўВҖВңCome, sir,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңlend me twenty francs; you will soon be paid;
you run no risks with me. Remember, I have relations who possess more
millions than you have deniers. Come, I beseech you, lend me twenty
francs, so that I may buy a dressing-gown; it is intolerable always to
be in a coat and boots! And what a coat, sir, for a prince of the
Cavalcanti!ГўВҖВқ

The keeper turned his back, and shrugged his shoulders; he did not even
laugh at what would have caused anyone else to do so; he had heard so
many utter the same things,ГўВҖВ”indeed, he heard nothing else.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, ГўВҖВңyou are a man void of compassion; IГўВҖВҷll have you
turned out.ГўВҖВқ

This made the keeper turn around, and he burst into a loud laugh. The
prisoners then approached and formed a circle.

ГўВҖВңI tell you that with that wretched sum,ГўВҖВқ continued Andrea, ГўВҖВңI could
obtain a coat, and a room in which to receive the illustrious visitor I
am daily expecting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf courseГўВҖВ”of course,ГўВҖВқ said the prisoners;ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңanyone can see heГўВҖВҷs a
gentleman!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, lend him the twenty francs,ГўВҖВқ said the keeper, leaning on
the other shoulder; ГўВҖВңsurely you will not refuse a comrade!ГўВҖВқ

50151m



ГўВҖВңI am no comrade of these people,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, proudly, ГўВҖВңyou
have no right to insult me thus.ГўВҖВқ

The thieves looked at one another with low murmurs, and a storm
gathered over the head of the aristocratic prisoner, raised less by his
own words than by the manner of the keeper. The latter, sure of
quelling the tempest when the waves became too violent, allowed them to
rise to a certain pitch that he might be revenged on the importunate
Andrea, and besides it would afford him some recreation during the long
day.

The thieves had already approached Andrea, some screaming, _ГўВҖВңLa
savateГўВҖВ”La savate!ГўВҖВқ_26 a cruel operation, which consists in cuffing a
comrade who may have fallen into disgrace, not with an old shoe, but
with an iron-heeled one. Others proposed the _anguille_, another kind
of recreation, in which a handkerchief is filled with sand, pebbles,
and two-sous pieces, when they have them, which the wretches beat like
a flail over the head and shoulders of the unhappy sufferer.

ГўВҖВңLet us horsewhip the fine gentleman!ГўВҖВқ said others.

But Andrea, turning towards them, winked his eyes, rolled his tongue
around his cheeks, and smacked his lips in a manner equivalent to a
hundred words among the bandits when forced to be silent. It was a
Masonic sign Caderousse had taught him. He was immediately recognized
as one of them; the handkerchief was thrown down, and the iron-heeled
shoe replaced on the foot of the wretch to whom it belonged.

Some voices were heard to say that the gentleman was right; that he
intended to be civil, in his way, and that they would set the example
of liberty of conscience,ГўВҖВ”and the mob retired. The keeper was so
stupefied at this scene that he took Andrea by the hands and began
examining his person, attributing the sudden submission of the inmates
of the LionsГўВҖВҷ Den to something more substantial than mere fascination.

Andrea made no resistance, although he protested against it. Suddenly a
voice was heard at the wicket.

ГўВҖВңBenedetto!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed an inspector. The keeper relaxed his hold.

ГўВҖВңI am called,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңTo the visitorsГўВҖВҷ room!ГўВҖВқ said the same voice.

ГўВҖВңYou see someone pays me a visit. Ah, my dear sir, you will see whether
a Cavalcanti is to be treated like a common person!ГўВҖВқ

And Andrea, gliding through the court like a black shadow, rushed out
through the wicket, leaving his comrades, and even the keeper, lost in
wonder. Certainly a call to the visitorsГўВҖВҷ room had scarcely astonished
Andrea less than themselves, for the wily youth, instead of making use
of his privilege of waiting to be claimed on his entry into La Force,
had maintained a rigid silence.

50153m



ГўВҖВңEverything,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңproves me to be under the protection of some
powerful person,ГўВҖВ”this sudden fortune, the facility with which I have
overcome all obstacles, an unexpected family and an illustrious name
awarded to me, gold showered down upon me, and the most splendid
alliances about to be entered into. An unhappy lapse of fortune and the
absence of my protector have cast me down, certainly, but not forever.
The hand which has retreated for a while will be again stretched forth
to save me at the very moment when I shall think myself sinking into
the abyss. Why should I risk an imprudent step? It might alienate my
protector. He has two means of extricating me from this dilemma,ГўВҖВ”the
one by a mysterious escape, managed through bribery; the other by
buying off my judges with gold. I will say and do nothing until I am
convinced that he has quite abandoned me, and thenГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Andrea had formed a plan which was tolerably clever. The unfortunate
youth was intrepid in the attack, and rude in the defence. He had borne
with the public prison, and with privations of all sorts; still, by
degrees nature, or rather custom, had prevailed, and he suffered from
being naked, dirty, and hungry. It was at this moment of discomfort
that the inspectorГўВҖВҷs voice called him to the visiting-room. Andrea felt
his heart leap with joy. It was too soon for a visit from the examining
magistrate, and too late for one from the director of the prison, or
the doctor; it must, then, be the visitor he hoped for. Behind the
grating of the room into which Andrea had been led, he saw, while his
eyes dilated with surprise, the dark and intelligent face of M.
Bertuccio, who was also gazing with sad astonishment upon the iron
bars, the bolted doors, and the shadow which moved behind the other
grating.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, deeply affected.

ГўВҖВңGood morning, Benedetto,ГўВҖВқ said Bertuccio, with his deep, hollow voice.

ГўВҖВңYouГўВҖВ”you?ГўВҖВқ said the young man, looking fearfully around him.

ГўВҖВңDo you not recognize me, unhappy child?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSilence,ГўВҖВ”be silent!ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, who knew the delicate sense of
hearing possessed by the walls; ГўВҖВңfor HeavenГўВҖВҷs sake, do not speak so
loud!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou wish to speak with me alone, do you not?ГўВҖВқ said Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is well.ГўВҖВқ

And Bertuccio, feeling in his pocket, signed to a keeper whom he saw
through the window of the wicket.

ГўВҖВңRead?ГўВҖВқ he said.

ГўВҖВңWhat is that?ГўВҖВқ asked Andrea.

ГўВҖВңAn order to conduct you to a room, and to leave you there to talk to
me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ cried Andrea, leaping with joy. Then he mentally added,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңStill my
unknown protector! I am not forgotten. They wish for secrecy, since we
are to converse in a private room. I understand, Bertuccio has been
sent by my protector.ГўВҖВқ

The keeper spoke for a moment with an official, then opened the iron
gates and conducted Andrea to a room on the first floor. The room was
whitewashed, as is the custom in prisons, but it looked quite brilliant
to a prisoner, though a stove, a bed, a chair, and a table formed the
whole of its sumptuous furniture. Bertuccio sat down upon the chair,
Andrea threw himself upon the bed; the keeper retired.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said the steward, ГўВҖВңwhat have you to tell me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you?ГўВҖВқ said Andrea.

ГўВҖВңYou speak first.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no. You must have much to tell me, since you have come to seek
me.ГўВҖВқ

50155m



ГўВҖВңWell, be it so. You have continued your course of villany; you have
robbedГўВҖВ”you have assassinated.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, I should say! If you had me taken to a private room only to tell
me this, you might have saved yourself the trouble. I know all these
things. But there are some with which, on the contrary, I am not
acquainted. Let us talk of those, if you please. Who sent you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come, you are going on quickly, M. Benedetto!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, and to the point. Let us dispense with useless words. Who sends
you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow did you know I was in prison?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI recognized you, some time since, as the insolent dandy who so
gracefully mounted his horse in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es? Ah, yes; we burn, as they say at the game of
pincette. The Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es? Come, let us talk a little about my
father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho, then, am I?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou, sir?ГўВҖВ”you are my adopted father. But it was not you, I presume,
who placed at my disposal 100,000 francs, which I spent in four or five
months; it was not you who manufactured an Italian gentleman for my
father; it was not you who introduced me into the world, and had me
invited to a certain dinner at Auteuil, which I fancy I am eating at
this moment, in company with the most distinguished people in
ParisГўВҖВ”amongst the rest with a certain procureur, whose acquaintance I
did very wrong not to cultivate, for he would have been very useful to
me just now;ГўВҖВ”it was not you, in fact, who bailed me for one or two
millions, when the fatal discovery of my little secret took place.
Come, speak, my worthy Corsican, speak!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you wish me to say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will help you. You were speaking of the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es just now,
worthy foster-father.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es there resides a very rich gentleman.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt whose house you robbed and murdered, did you not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI believe I did.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTis you who have named him, as M. Racine says. Well, am I to rush
into his arms, and strain him to my heart, crying, ГўВҖВҳMy father, my
father!ГўВҖВҷ like Monsieur PixГғВ©rГғВ©court.ГўВҖВқ27

ГўВҖВңDo not let us jest,ГўВҖВқ gravely replied Bertuccio, ГўВҖВңand dare not to utter
that name again as you have pronounced it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, a little overcome, by the solemnity of BertuccioГўВҖВҷs
manner, ГўВҖВңwhy not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause the person who bears it is too highly favored by Heaven to be
the father of such a wretch as you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, these are fine words.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd there will be fine doings, if you do not take care.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMenacesГўВҖВ”I do not fear them. I will sayГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you think you are engaged with a pygmy like yourself?ГўВҖВқ said
Bertuccio, in so calm a tone, and with so steadfast a look, that Andrea
was moved to the very soul. ГўВҖВңDo you think you have to do with
galley-slaves, or novices in the world? Benedetto, you are fallen into
terrible hands; they are ready to open for youГўВҖВ”make use of them. Do not
play with the thunderbolt they have laid aside for a moment, but which
they can take up again instantly, if you attempt to intercept their
movements.ГўВҖВқ

50157m



ГўВҖВңMy fatherГўВҖВ”I will know who my father is,ГўВҖВқ said the obstinate youth; ГўВҖВңI
will perish if I must, but I _will_ know it. What does scandal signify
to me? What possessions, what reputation, what ГўВҖВҳpull,ГўВҖВҷ as Beauchamp
says,ГўВҖВ”have I? You great people always lose something by scandal,
notwithstanding your millions. Come, who is my father?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI came to tell you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ cried Benedetto, his eyes sparkling with joy. Just then the door
opened, and the jailer, addressing himself to Bertuccio, said:

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, sir, but the examining magistrate is waiting for the
prisoner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd so closes our interview,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea to the worthy steward; ГўВҖВңI
wish the troublesome fellow were at the devil!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will return tomorrow,ГўВҖВқ said Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңGood! Gendarmes, I am at your service. Ah, sir, do leave a few crowns
for me at the gate that I may have some things I am in need of!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt shall be done,ГўВҖВқ replied Bertuccio.

Andrea extended his hand; Bertuccio kept his own in his pocket, and
merely jingled a few pieces of money.

ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs what I mean,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, endeavoring to smile, quite overcome
by the strange tranquillity of Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңCan I be deceived?ГўВҖВқ he murmured, as he stepped into the oblong and
grated vehicle which they call ГўВҖВңthe salad basket.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind, we shall see! Tomorrow, then!ГўВҖВқ he added, turning towards
Bertuccio.

ГўВҖВңTomorrow!ГўВҖВқ replied the steward.



 Chapter 108. The Judge

We remember that the AbbГғВ© Busoni remained alone with Noirtier in the
chamber of death, and that the old man and the priest were the sole
guardians of the young girlГўВҖВҷs body. Perhaps it was the Christian
exhortations of the abbГғВ©, perhaps his kind charity, perhaps his
persuasive words, which had restored the courage of Noirtier, for ever
since he had conversed with the priest his violent despair had yielded
to a calm resignation which surprised all who knew his excessive
affection for Valentine.

M. de Villefort had not seen his father since the morning of the death.
The whole establishment had been changed; another valet was engaged for
himself, a new servant for Noirtier, two women had entered Madame de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs service,ГўВҖВ”in fact, everywhere, to the concierge and
coachmen, new faces were presented to the different masters of the
house, thus widening the division which had always existed between the
members of the same family. The assizes, also, were about to begin, and
Villefort, shut up in his room, exerted himself with feverish anxiety
in drawing up the case against the murderer of Caderousse. This affair,
like all those in which the Count of Monte Cristo had interfered,
caused a great sensation in Paris. The proofs were certainly not
convincing, since they rested upon a few words written by an escaped
galley-slave on his death-bed, and who might have been actuated by
hatred or revenge in accusing his companion. But the mind of the
procureur was made up; he felt assured that Benedetto was guilty, and
he hoped by his skill in conducting this aggravated case to flatter his
self-love, which was about the only vulnerable point left in his frozen
heart.

The case was therefore prepared owing to the incessant labor of
Villefort, who wished it to be the first on the list in the coming
assizes. He had been obliged to seclude himself more than ever, to
evade the enormous number of applications presented to him for the
purpose of obtaining tickets of admission to the court on the day of
trial. And then so short a time had elapsed since the death of poor
Valentine, and the gloom which overshadowed the house was so recent,
that no one wondered to see the father so absorbed in his professional
duties, which were the only means he had of dissipating his grief.

Once only had Villefort seen his father; it was the day after that upon
which Bertuccio had paid his second visit to Benedetto, when the latter
was to learn his fatherГўВҖВҷs name. The magistrate, harassed and fatigued,
had descended to the garden of his house, and in a gloomy mood, similar
to that in which Tarquin lopped off the tallest poppies, he began
knocking off with his cane the long and dying branches of the
rose-trees, which, placed along the avenue, seemed like the spectres of
the brilliant flowers which had bloomed in the past season.

More than once he had reached that part of the garden where the famous
boarded gate stood overlooking the deserted enclosure, always returning
by the same path, to begin his walk again, at the same pace and with
the same gesture, when he accidentally turned his eyes towards the
house, whence he heard the noisy play of his son, who had returned from
school to spend the Sunday and Monday with his mother.

While doing so, he observed M. Noirtier at one of the open windows,
where the old man had been placed that he might enjoy the last rays of
the sun which yet yielded some heat, and was now shining upon the dying
flowers and red leaves of the creeper which twined around the balcony.

The eye of the old man was riveted upon a spot which Villefort could
scarcely distinguish. His glance was so full of hate, of ferocity, and
savage impatience, that Villefort turned out of the path he had been
pursuing, to see upon what person this dark look was directed.

Then he saw beneath a thick clump of linden-trees, which were nearly
divested of foliage, Madame de Villefort sitting with a book in her
hand, the perusal of which she frequently interrupted to smile upon her
son, or to throw back his elastic ball, which he obstinately threw from
the drawing-room into the garden.

Villefort became pale; he understood the old manГўВҖВҷs meaning.

Noirtier continued to look at the same object, but suddenly his glance
was transferred from the wife to the husband, and Villefort himself had
to submit to the searching investigation of eyes, which, while changing
their direction and even their language, had lost none of their
menacing expression. Madame de Villefort, unconscious of the passions
that exhausted their fire over her head, at that moment held her sonГўВҖВҷs
ball, and was making signs to him to reclaim it with a kiss. Edward
begged for a long while, the maternal kiss probably not offering
sufficient recompense for the trouble he must take to obtain it;
however at length he decided, leaped out of the window into a cluster
of heliotropes and daisies, and ran to his mother, his forehead
streaming with perspiration. Madame de Villefort wiped his forehead,
pressed her lips upon it, and sent him back with the ball in one hand
and some bonbons in the other.

Villefort, drawn by an irresistible attraction, like that of the bird
to the serpent, walked towards the house. As he approached it,
NoirtierГўВҖВҷs gaze followed him, and his eyes appeared of such a fiery
brightness that Villefort felt them pierce to the depths of his heart.
In that earnest look might be read a deep reproach, as well as a
terrible menace. Then Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven, as though to
remind his son of a forgotten oath.

ГўВҖВңIt is well, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied Villefort from below,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңit is well; have
patience but one day longer; what I have said I will do.ГўВҖВқ

Noirtier seemed to be calmed by these words, and turned his eyes with
indifference to the other side. Villefort violently unbuttoned his
greatcoat, which seemed to strangle him, and passing his livid hand
across his forehead, entered his study.

The night was cold and still; the family had all retired to rest but
Villefort, who alone remained up, and worked till five oГўВҖВҷclock in the
morning, reviewing the last interrogatories made the night before by
the examining magistrates, compiling the depositions of the witnesses,
and putting the finishing stroke to the deed of accusation, which was
one of the most energetic and best conceived of any he had yet
delivered.

The next day, Monday, was the first sitting of the assizes. The morning
dawned dull and gloomy, and Villefort saw the dim gray light shine upon
the lines he had traced in red ink. The magistrate had slept for a
short time while the lamp sent forth its final struggles; its
flickerings awoke him, and he found his fingers as damp and purple as
though they had been dipped in blood.

He opened the window; a bright yellow streak crossed the sky, and
seemed to divide in half the poplars, which stood out in black relief
on the horizon. In the clover-fields beyond the chestnut-trees, a lark
was mounting up to heaven, while pouring out her clear morning song.
The damps of the dew bathed the head of Villefort, and refreshed his
memory.

ГўВҖВңToday,ГўВҖВқ he said with an effort,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңtoday the man who holds the blade of
justice must strike wherever there is guilt.ГўВҖВқ

Involuntarily his eyes wandered towards the window of NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room,
where he had seen him the preceding night. The curtain was drawn, and
yet the image of his father was so vivid to his mind that he addressed
the closed window as though it had been open, and as if through the
opening he had beheld the menacing old man.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ he murmured,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyes, be satisfied.ГўВҖВқ

His head dropped upon his chest, and in this position he paced his
study; then he threw himself, dressed as he was, upon a sofa, less to
sleep than to rest his limbs, cramped with cold and study. By degrees
everyone awoke. Villefort, from his study, heard the successive noises
which accompany the life of a house,ГўВҖВ”the opening and shutting of doors,
the ringing of Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs bell, to summon the waiting-maid,
mingled with the first shouts of the child, who rose full of the
enjoyment of his age. Villefort also rang; his new valet brought him
the papers, and with them a cup of chocolate.

ГўВҖВңWhat are you bringing me?ГўВҖВқ said he.

ГўВҖВңA cup of chocolate.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI did not ask for it. Who has paid me this attention?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy mistress, sir. She said you would have to speak a great deal in the
murder case, and that you should take something to keep up your
strength;ГўВҖВқ and the valet placed the cup on the table nearest to the
sofa, which was, like all the rest, covered with papers.

The valet then left the room. Villefort looked for an instant with a
gloomy expression, then, suddenly, taking it up with a nervous motion,
he swallowed its contents at one draught. It might have been thought
that he hoped the beverage would be mortal, and that he sought for
death to deliver him from a duty which he would rather die than fulfil.
He then rose, and paced his room with a smile it would have been
terrible to witness. The chocolate was inoffensive, for M. de Villefort
felt no effects.

The breakfast-hour arrived, but M. de Villefort was not at table. The
valet re-entered.

ГўВҖВңMadame de Villefort wishes to remind you, sir,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңthat eleven
oГўВҖВҷclock has just struck, and that the trial commences at twelve.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, ГўВҖВңwhat then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame de Villefort is dressed; she is quite ready, and wishes to know
if she is to accompany you, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere to?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the Palais.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat to do?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy mistress wishes much to be present at the trial.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, with a startling accent; ГўВҖВңdoes she wish that?ГўВҖВқ

The servant drew back and said, ГўВҖВңIf you wish to go alone, sir, I will
go and tell my mistress.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort remained silent for a moment, and dented his pale cheeks with
his nails.

ГўВҖВңTell your mistress,ГўВҖВқ he at length answered, ГўВҖВңthat I wish to speak to
her, and I beg she will wait for me in her own room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen come to dress and shave me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDirectly, sir.ГўВҖВқ

The valet re-appeared almost instantly, and, having shaved his master,
assisted him to dress entirely in black. When he had finished, he said:

ГўВҖВңMy mistress said she should expect you, sir, as soon as you had
finished dressing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am going to her.ГўВҖВқ

And Villefort, with his papers under his arm and hat in hand, directed
his steps toward the apartment of his wife.

At the door he paused for a moment to wipe his damp, pale brow. He then
entered the room. Madame de Villefort was sitting on an ottoman and
impatiently turning over the leaves of some newspapers and pamphlets
which young Edward, by way of amusing himself, was tearing to pieces
before his mother could finish reading them. She was dressed to go out,
her bonnet was placed beside her on a chair, and her gloves were on her
hands.

ГўВҖВңAh, here you are, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ she said in her naturally calm voice;
ГўВҖВңbut how pale you are! Have you been working all night? Why did you not
come down to breakfast? Well, will you take me, or shall I take
Edward?ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort had multiplied her questions in order to gain one
answer, but to all her inquiries M. de Villefort remained mute and cold
as a statue.

ГўВҖВңEdward,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort, fixing an imperious glance on the child, ГўВҖВңgo
and play in the drawing-room, my dear; I wish to speak to your mamma.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort shuddered at the sight of that cold countenance,
that resolute tone, and the awfully strange preliminaries. Edward
raised his head, looked at his mother, and then, finding that she did
not confirm the order, began cutting off the heads of his leaden
soldiers.

ГўВҖВңEdward,ГўВҖВқ cried M. de Villefort, so harshly that the child started up
from the floor, ГўВҖВңdo you hear me?ГўВҖВ”Go!ГўВҖВқ

The child, unaccustomed to such treatment, arose, pale and trembling;
it would be difficult to say whether his emotion were caused by fear or
passion. His father went up to him, took him in his arms, and kissed
his forehead.

ГўВҖВңGo,ГўВҖВқ he said: ГўВҖВңgo, my child.ГўВҖВқ Edward ran out.

M. de Villefort went to the door, which he closed behind the child, and
bolted.

ГўВҖВңDear me!ГўВҖВқ said the young woman, endeavoring to read her husbandГўВҖВҷs
inmost thoughts, while a smile passed over her countenance which froze
the impassibility of Villefort; ГўВҖВңwhat is the matter?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame, where do you keep the poison you generally use?ГўВҖВқ said the
magistrate, without any introduction, placing himself between his wife
and the door.

Madame de Villefort must have experienced something of the sensation of
a bird which, looking up, sees the murderous trap closing over its
head.

A hoarse, broken tone, which was neither a cry nor a sigh, escaped from
her, while she became deadly pale.

ГўВҖВңMonsieur,ГўВҖВқ she said, ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВ”I do not understand you.ГўВҖВқ

And, in her first paroxysm of terror, she had raised herself from the
sofa, in the next, stronger very likely than the other, she fell down
again on the cushions.

ГўВҖВңI asked you,ГўВҖВқ continued Villefort, in a perfectly calm tone, ГўВҖВңwhere
you conceal the poison by the aid of which you have killed my
father-in-law, M. de Saint-MГғВ©ran, my mother-in-law, Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran, Barrois, and my daughter Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, sir,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Madame de Villefort, clasping her hands, ГўВҖВңwhat do
you say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is not for you to interrogate, but to answer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIs it to the judge or to the husband?ГўВҖВқ stammered Madame de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңTo the judgeГўВҖВ”to the judge, madame!ГўВҖВқ It was terrible to behold the
frightful pallor of that woman, the anguish of her look, the trembling
of her whole frame.

ГўВҖВңAh, sir,ГўВҖВқ she muttered, ГўВҖВңah, sir,ГўВҖВқ and this was all.

ГўВҖВңYou do not answer, madame!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the terrible interrogator. Then
he added, with a smile yet more terrible than his anger, ГўВҖВңIt is true,
then; you do not deny it!ГўВҖВқ She moved forward. ГўВҖВңAnd you cannot deny it!ГўВҖВқ
added Villefort, extending his hand toward her, as though to seize her
in the name of justice. ГўВҖВңYou have accomplished these different crimes
with impudent address, but which could only deceive those whose
affections for you blinded them. Since the death of Madame de
Saint-MГғВ©ran, I have known that a poisoner lived in my house. M.
dГўВҖВҷAvrigny warned me of it. After the death of Barrois my suspicions
were directed towards an angel,ГўВҖВ”those suspicions which, even when there
is no crime, are always alive in my heart; but after the death of
Valentine, there has been no doubt in my mind, madame, and not only in
mine, but in those of others; thus your crime, known by two persons,
suspected by many, will soon become public, and, as I told you just
now, you no longer speak to the husband, but to the judge.ГўВҖВқ

50165m



The young woman hid her face in her hands.

ГўВҖВңOh, sir,ГўВҖВқ she stammered, ГўВҖВңI beseech you, do not believe appearances.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you, then, a coward?ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, in a contemptuous voice.
ГўВҖВңBut I have always observed that poisoners were cowards. Can you be a
coward, you, who have had the courage to witness the death of two old
men and a young girl murdered by you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSir! sir!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCan you be a coward?ГўВҖВқ continued Villefort, with increasing excitement,
ГўВҖВңyou, who could count, one by one, the minutes of four death agonies?
_You_, who have arranged your infernal plans, and removed the beverages
with a talent and precision almost miraculous? Have you, then, who have
calculated everything with such nicety, have you forgotten to calculate
one thingГўВҖВ”I mean where the revelation of your crimes will lead you to?
Oh, it is impossibleГўВҖВ”you must have saved some surer, more subtle and
deadly poison than any other, that you might escape the punishment that
you deserve. You have done thisГўВҖВ”I hope so, at least.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort stretched out her hands, and fell on her knees.

ГўВҖВңI understand,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңyou confess; but a confession made to the
judges, a confession made at the last moment, extorted when the crime
cannot be denied, diminishes not the punishment inflicted on the
guilty!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe punishment?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Madame de Villefort, ГўВҖВңthe punishment,
monsieur? Twice you have pronounced that word!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly. Did you hope to escape it because you were four times
guilty? Did you think the punishment would be withheld because you are
the wife of him who pronounces it?ГўВҖВ”No, madame, no; the scaffold awaits
the poisoner, whoever she may be, unless, as I just said, the poisoner
has taken the precaution of keeping for herself a few drops of her
deadliest poison.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort uttered a wild cry, and a hideous and
uncontrollable terror spread over her distorted features.

ГўВҖВңOh, do not fear the scaffold, madame,ГўВҖВқ said the magistrate; ГўВҖВңI will
not dishonor you, since that would be dishonor to myself; no, if you
have heard me distinctly, you will understand that you are not to die
on the scaffold.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, I do not understand; what do you mean?ГўВҖВқ stammered the unhappy
woman, completely overwhelmed.

ГўВҖВңI mean that the wife of the first magistrate in the capital shall not,
by her infamy, soil an unblemished name; that she shall not, with one
blow, dishonor her husband and her child.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, noГўВҖВ”oh, no!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, madame, it will be a laudable action on your part, and I will
thank you for it!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will thank meГўВҖВ”for what?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor what you have just said.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did I say? Oh, my brain whirls; I no longer understand anything.
Oh, my God, my God!ГўВҖВқ

And she rose, with her hair dishevelled, and her lips foaming.

ГўВҖВңHave you answered the question I put to you on entering the
room?ГўВҖВ”where do you keep the poison you generally use, madame?ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort raised her arms to heaven, and convulsively struck
one hand against the other.

ГўВҖВңNo, no,ГўВҖВқ she vociferated, ГўВҖВңno, you cannot wish that!ГўВҖВқ

50169m



ГўВҖВңWhat I do not wish, madame, is that you should perish on the scaffold.
Do you understand?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort.

ГўВҖВңOh, mercy, mercy, monsieur!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat I require is, that justice be done. I am on the earth to punish,
madame,ГўВҖВқ he added, with a flaming glance; ГўВҖВңany other woman, were it the
queen herself, I would send to the executioner; but to you I shall be
merciful. To you I will say, ГўВҖВҳHave you not, madame, put aside some of
the surest, deadliest, most speedy poison?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

50170m



ГўВҖВңOh, pardon me, sir; let me live!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe is cowardly,ГўВҖВқ said Villefort.

ГўВҖВңReflect that I am your wife!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are a poisoner.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the name of Heaven!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the name of the love you once bore me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn the name of our child! Ah, for the sake of our child, let me live!ГўВҖВқ

50167m



ГўВҖВңNo, no, no, I tell you; one day, if I allow you to live, you will
perhaps kill him, as you have the others!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВ”I kill my boy?ГўВҖВқ cried the distracted mother, rushing toward
Villefort; ГўВҖВңI kill my son? Ha, ha, ha!ГўВҖВқ and a frightful, demoniac laugh
finished the sentence, which was lost in a hoarse rattle.

Madame de Villefort fell at her husbandГўВҖВҷs feet. He approached her.

ГўВҖВңThink of it, madame,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңif, on my return, justice has not been
satisfied, I will denounce you with my own mouth, and arrest you with
my own hands!ГўВҖВқ

She listened, panting, overwhelmed, crushed; her eye alone lived, and
glared horribly.

ГўВҖВңDo you understand me?ГўВҖВқ he said. ГўВҖВңI am going down there to pronounce
the sentence of death against a murderer. If I find you alive on my
return, you shall sleep tonight in the conciergerie.ГўВҖВқ

Madame de Villefort sighed; her nerves gave way, and she sunk on the
carpet. The kingГўВҖВҷs attorney seemed to experience a sensation of pity;
he looked upon her less severely, and, bowing to her, said slowly:

ГўВҖВңFarewell, madame, farewell!ГўВҖВқ

That farewell struck Madame de Villefort like the executionerГўВҖВҷs knife.
She fainted. The procureur went out, after having double-locked the
door.



 Chapter 109. The Assizes

The Benedetto affair, as it was called at the Palais, and by people in
general, had produced a tremendous sensation. Frequenting the CafГғВ© de
Paris, the Boulevard de Gand, and the Bois de Boulogne, during his
brief career of splendor, the false Cavalcanti had formed a host of
acquaintances. The papers had related his various adventures, both as
the man of fashion and the galley-slave; and as everyone who had been
personally acquainted with Prince Andrea Cavalcanti experienced a
lively curiosity in his fate, they all determined to spare no trouble
in endeavoring to witness the trial of M. Benedetto for the murder of
his comrade in chains.

In the eyes of many, Benedetto appeared, if not a victim to, at least
an instance of, the fallibility of the law. M. Cavalcanti, his father,
had been seen in Paris, and it was expected that he would re-appear to
claim the illustrious outcast. Many, also, who were not aware of the
circumstances attending his withdrawal from Paris, were struck with the
worthy appearance, the gentlemanly bearing, and the knowledge of the
world displayed by the old patrician, who certainly played the nobleman
very well, so long as he said nothing, and made no arithmetical
calculations.

As for the accused himself, many remembered him as being so amiable, so
handsome, and so liberal, that they chose to think him the victim of
some conspiracy, since in this world large fortunes frequently excite
the malevolence and jealousy of some unknown enemy.

Everyone, therefore, ran to the court; some to witness the sight,
others to comment upon it. From seven oГўВҖВҷclock in the morning a crowd
was stationed at the iron gates, and an hour before the trial commenced
the hall was full of the privileged. Before the entrance of the
magistrates, and indeed frequently afterwards, a court of justice, on
days when some especial trial is to take place, resembles a
drawing-room where many persons recognize each other and converse if
they can do so without losing their seats; or, if they are separated by
too great a number of lawyers, communicate by signs.

It was one of the magnificent autumn days which make amends for a short
summer; the clouds which M. de Villefort had perceived at sunrise had
all disappeared as if by magic, and one of the softest and most
brilliant days of September shone forth in all its splendor.

Beauchamp, one of the kings of the press, and therefore claiming the
right of a throne everywhere, was eying everybody through his monocle.
He perceived ChГғВўteau-Renaud and Debray, who had just gained the good
graces of a sergeant-at-arms, and who had persuaded the latter to let
them stand before, instead of behind him, as they ought to have done.
The worthy sergeant had recognized the ministerГўВҖВҷs secretary and the
millionnaire, and, by way of paying extra attention to his noble
neighbors, promised to keep their places while they paid a visit to
Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңwe shall see our friend!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, indeed!ГўВҖВқ replied Debray. ГўВҖВңThat worthy prince. Deuce take those
Italian princes!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA man, too, who could boast of Dante for a genealogist, and could
reckon back to the _Divina Comedia_.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA nobility of the rope!ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud phlegmatically.

ГўВҖВңHe will be condemned, will he not?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray of Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңMy dear fellow, I think we should ask you that question; you know such
news much better than we do. Did you see the president at the
ministerГўВҖВҷs last night?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat did he say?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSomething which will surprise you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, make haste and tell me, then; it is a long time since that has
happened.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, he told me that Benedetto, who is considered a serpent of
subtlety and a giant of cunning, is really but a very commonplace,
silly rascal, and altogether unworthy of the experiments that will be
made on his phrenological organs after his death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBah,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңhe played the prince very well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, for you who detest those unhappy princes, Beauchamp, and are
always delighted to find fault with them; but not for me, who discover
a gentleman by instinct, and who scent out an aristocratic family like
a very bloodhound of heraldry.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you never believed in the principality?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВ”in the principality, but not in the prince.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot so bad,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңstill, I assure you, he passed very well
with many people; I saw him at the ministersГўВҖВҷ houses.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud. ГўВҖВңThe idea of thinking ministers
understand anything about princes!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is something in what you have just said,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp,
laughing.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said Debray to Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңif I spoke to the president, _you_
must have been with the procureur.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt was an impossibility; for the last week M. de Villefort has
secluded himself. It is natural enough; this strange chain of domestic
afflictions, followed by the no less strange death of his daughterГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStrange? What do you mean, Beauchamp?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes; do you pretend that all this has been unobserved at the
ministerГўВҖВҷs?ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, placing his eye-glass in his eye, where he
tried to make it remain.

ГўВҖВңMy dear sir,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңallow me to tell you that you do
not understand that manГ…В“uvre with the eye-glass half so well as Debray.
Give him a lesson, Debray.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStay,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңsurely I am not deceived.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is she!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhom do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey said she had left.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMademoiselle EugГғВ©nie?ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңhas she returned?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, but her mother.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame Danglars? Nonsense! Impossible!ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңonly ten
days after the flight of her daughter, and three days from the
bankruptcy of her husband?ГўВҖВқ

Debray colored slightly, and followed with his eyes the direction of
BeauchampГўВҖВҷs glance.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңit is only a veiled lady, some foreign princess,
perhaps the mother of Cavalcanti. But you were just speaking on a very
interesting topic, Beauchamp.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; you were telling us about the extraordinary death of Valentine.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, yes, so I was. But how is it that Madame de Villefort is not
here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPoor, dear woman,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңshe is no doubt occupied in
distilling balm for the hospitals, or in making cosmetics for herself
or friends. Do you know she spends two or three thousand crowns a year
in this amusement? But I wonder she is not here. I should have been
pleased to see her, for I like her very much.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I hate her,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңWhy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not know. Why do we love? Why do we hate? I detest her, from
antipathy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOr, rather, by instinct.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPerhaps so. But to return to what you were saying, Beauchamp.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, do you know why they die so multitudinously at M. de
VillefortГўВҖВҷs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳMultitudinouslyГўВҖВҷ is good,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңMy good fellow, youГўВҖВҷll find the word in Saint-Simon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut the thing itself is at M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs; but letГўВҖВҷs get back to
the subject.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTalking of that,ГўВҖВқ said Debray, ГўВҖВңMadame was making inquiries about that
house, which for the last three months has been hung with black.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho is Madame?ГўВҖВқ asked ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңThe ministerГўВҖВҷs wife, _pardieu!_ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, your pardon! I never visit ministers; I leave that to the
princes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally, you were only before sparkling, but now you are brilliant;
take compassion on us, or, like Jupiter, you will wither us up.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will not speak again,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud; ГўВҖВңpray have compassion
upon me, and do not take up every word I say.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, let us endeavor to get to the end of our story, Beauchamp; I
told you that yesterday Madame made inquiries of me upon the subject;
enlighten me, and I will then communicate my information to her.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, gentlemen, the reason people die so multitudinously (I like the
word) at M. de VillefortГўВҖВҷs is that there is an assassin in the house!ГўВҖВқ

The two young men shuddered, for the same idea had more than once
occurred to them.

ГўВҖВңAnd who is the assassin;ГўВҖВқ they asked together.

ГўВҖВңYoung Edward!ГўВҖВқ A burst of laughter from the auditors did not in the
least disconcert the speaker, who continued,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңYes, gentlemen; Edward,
the infant phenomenon, who is quite an adept in the art of killing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are jesting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot at all. I yesterday engaged a servant, who had just left M. de
VillefortГўВҖВ”I intend sending him away tomorrow, for he eats so
enormously, to make up for the fast imposed upon him by his terror in
that house. Well, now listen.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are listening.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt appears the dear child has obtained possession of a bottle
containing some drug, which he every now and then uses against those
who have displeased him. First, M. and Madame de Saint-MГғВ©ran incurred
his displeasure, so he poured out three drops of his elixirГўВҖВ”three drops
were sufficient; then followed Barrois, the old servant of M. Noirtier,
who sometimes rebuffed this little wretchГўВҖВ”he therefore received the
same quantity of the elixir; the same happened to Valentine, of whom he
was jealous; he gave her the same dose as the others, and all was over
for her as well as the rest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, what nonsense are you telling us?ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud.

ГўВҖВңYes, it is an extraordinary story,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp; ГўВҖВңis it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is absurd,ГўВҖВқ said Debray.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңyou doubt me? Well, you can ask my servant, or
rather him who will no longer be my servant tomorrow, it was the talk
of the house.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd this elixir, where is it? what is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe child conceals it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut where did he find it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn his motherГўВҖВҷs laboratory.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes his mother then, keep poisons in her laboratory?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow can I tell? You are questioning me like a kingГўВҖВҷs attorney. I only
repeat what I have been told, and like my informant I can do no more.
The poor devil would eat nothing, from fear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is incredible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, my dear fellow, it is not at all incredible. You saw the child
pass through the Rue Richelieu last year, who amused himself with
killing his brothers and sisters by sticking pins in their ears while
they slept. The generation who follow us are very precocious.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, Beauchamp,ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңI will bet anything you do not
believe a word of all you have been telling us. But I do not see the
Count of Monte Cristo here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe is worn out,ГўВҖВқ said Debray; ГўВҖВңbesides, he could not well appear in
public, since he has been the dupe of the Cavalcanti, who, it appears,
presented themselves to him with false letters of credit, and cheated
him out of 100,000 francs upon the hypothesis of this principality.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy the way, M. de ChГғВўteau-Renaud,ГўВҖВқ asked Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңhow is Morrel?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, I have called three times without once seeing him. Still,
his sister did not seem uneasy, and told me that though she had not
seen him for two or three days, she was sure he was well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, now I think of it, the Count of Monte Cristo cannot appear in the
hall,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңWhy not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause he is an actor in the drama.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHas he assassinated anyone, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, on the contrary, they wished to assassinate him. You know that it
was in leaving his house that M. de Caderousse was murdered by his
friend Benedetto. You know that the famous waistcoat was found in his
house, containing the letter which stopped the signature of the
marriage-contract. Do you see the waistcoat? There it is, all
blood-stained, on the desk, as a testimony of the crime.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, very good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHush, gentlemen, here is the court; let us go back to our places.ГўВҖВқ

A noise was heard in the hall; the sergeant called his two patrons with
an energetic ГўВҖВңhem!ГўВҖВқ and the door-keeper appearing, called out with that
shrill voice peculiar to his order, ever since the days of
Beaumarchais:

ГўВҖВңThe court, gentlemen!ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 110. The Indictment

The judges took their places in the midst of the most profound silence;
the jury took their seats; M. de Villefort, the object of unusual
attention, and we had almost said of general admiration, sat in the
armchair and cast a tranquil glance around him. Everyone looked with
astonishment on that grave and severe face, whose calm expression
personal griefs had been unable to disturb, and the aspect of a man who
was a stranger to all human emotions excited something very like
terror.

ГўВҖВңGendarmes,ГўВҖВқ said the president, ГўВҖВңlead in the accused.ГўВҖВқ

At these words the public attention became more intense, and all eyes
were turned towards the door through which Benedetto was to enter. The
door soon opened and the accused appeared.

The same impression was experienced by all present, and no one was
deceived by the expression of his countenance. His features bore no
sign of that deep emotion which stops the beating of the heart and
blanches the cheek. His hands, gracefully placed, one upon his hat, the
other in the opening of his white waistcoat, were not at all tremulous;
his eye was calm and even brilliant. Scarcely had he entered the hall
when he glanced at the whole body of magistrates and assistants; his
eye rested longer on the president, and still more so on the kingГўВҖВҷs
attorney.

By the side of Andrea was stationed the lawyer who was to conduct his
defence, and who had been appointed by the court, for Andrea disdained
to pay any attention to those details, to which he appeared to attach
no importance. The lawyer was a young man with light hair whose face
expressed a hundred times more emotion than that which characterized
the prisoner.

50181m



The president called for the indictment, revised as we know, by the
clever and implacable pen of Villefort. During the reading of this,
which was long, the public attention was continually drawn towards
Andrea, who bore the inspection with Spartan unconcern. Villefort had
never been so concise and eloquent. The crime was depicted in the most
vivid colors; the former life of the prisoner, his transformation, a
review of his life from the earliest period, were set forth with all
the talent that a knowledge of human life could furnish to a mind like
that of the procureur. Benedetto was thus forever condemned in public
opinion before the sentence of the law could be pronounced.

Andrea paid no attention to the successive charges which were brought
against him. M. de Villefort, who examined him attentively, and who no
doubt practiced upon him all the psychological studies he was
accustomed to use, in vain endeavored to make him lower his eyes,
notwithstanding the depth and profundity of his gaze. At length the
reading of the indictment was ended.

ГўВҖВңAccused,ГўВҖВқ said the president, ГўВҖВңyour name and surname?ГўВҖВқ

Andrea arose.

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, Mr. President,ГўВҖВқ he said, in a clear voice, ГўВҖВңbut I see you
are going to adopt a course of questions through which I cannot follow
you. I have an idea, which I will explain by and by, of making an
exception to the usual form of accusation. Allow me, then, if you
please, to answer in different order, or I will not do so at all.ГўВҖВқ

The astonished president looked at the jury, who in turn looked at
Villefort. The whole assembly manifested great surprise, but Andrea
appeared quite unmoved.

ГўВҖВңYour age?ГўВҖВқ said the president; ГўВҖВңwill you answer that question?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will answer that question, as well as the rest, Mr. President, but
in its turn.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour age?ГўВҖВқ repeated the president.

ГўВҖВңI am twenty-one years old, or rather I shall be in a few days, as I
was born the night of the 27th of September, 1817.ГўВҖВқ

M. de Villefort, who was busy taking down some notes, raised his head
at the mention of this date.

ГўВҖВңWhere were you born?ГўВҖВқ continued the president.

ГўВҖВңAt Auteuil, near Paris.ГўВҖВқ

M. de Villefort a second time raised his head, looked at Benedetto as
if he had been gazing at the head of Medusa, and became livid. As for
Benedetto, he gracefully wiped his lips with a fine cambric
pocket-handkerchief.

ГўВҖВңYour profession?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFirst I was a forger,ГўВҖВқ answered Andrea, as calmly as possible; ГўВҖВңthen I
became a thief, and lately have become an assassin.ГўВҖВқ

A murmur, or rather storm, of indignation burst from all parts of the
assembly. The judges themselves appeared to be stupefied, and the jury
manifested tokens of disgust for a cynicism so unexpected in a man of
fashion. M. de Villefort pressed his hand upon his brow, which, at
first pale, had become red and burning; then he suddenly arose and
looked around as though he had lost his sensesГўВҖВ”he wanted air.

50183m



ГўВҖВңAre you looking for anything, Mr. Procureur?ГўВҖВқ asked Benedetto, with
his most ingratiating smile.

M. de Villefort answered nothing, but sat, or rather threw himself down
again upon his chair.

ГўВҖВңAnd now, prisoner, will you consent to tell your name?ГўВҖВқ said the
president. ГўВҖВңThe brutal affectation with which you have enumerated and
classified your crimes calls for a severe reprimand on the part of the
court, both in the name of morality, and for the respect due to
humanity. You appear to consider this a point of honor, and it may be
for this reason, that you have delayed acknowledging your name. You
wished it to be preceded by all these titles.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is quite wonderful, Mr. President, how entirely you have read my
thoughts,ГўВҖВқ said Benedetto, in his softest voice and most polite manner.
ГўВҖВңThis is, indeed, the reason why I begged you to alter the order of the
questions.ГўВҖВқ

The public astonishment had reached its height. There was no longer any
deceit or bravado in the manner of the accused. The audience felt that
a startling revelation was to follow this ominous prelude.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said the president; ГўВҖВңyour name?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI cannot tell you my name, since I do not know it; but I know my
fatherГўВҖВҷs, and can tell it to you.ГўВҖВқ

A painful giddiness overwhelmed Villefort; great drops of acrid sweat
fell from his face upon the papers which he held in his convulsed hand.

ГўВҖВңRepeat your fatherГўВҖВҷs name,ГўВҖВқ said the president.

Not a whisper, not a breath, was heard in that vast assembly; everyone
waited anxiously.

ГўВҖВңMy father is kingГўВҖВҷs attorney,ГўВҖВқ replied Andrea calmly.

50179m



ГўВҖВңKingГўВҖВҷs attorney?ГўВҖВқ said the president, stupefied, and without noticing
the agitation which spread over the face of M. de Villefort; ГўВҖВңkingГўВҖВҷs
attorney?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; and if you wish to know his name, I will tell it,ГўВҖВ”he is named
Villefort.ГўВҖВқ

The explosion, which had been so long restrained from a feeling of
respect to the court of justice, now burst forth like thunder from the
breasts of all present; the court itself did not seek to restrain the
feelings of the audience. The exclamations, the insults addressed to
Benedetto, who remained perfectly unconcerned, the energetic gestures,
the movement of the gendarmes, the sneers of the scum of the crowd
always sure to rise to the surface in case of any disturbanceГўВҖВ”all this
lasted five minutes, before the door-keepers and magistrates were able
to restore silence. In the midst of this tumult the voice of
the president was heard to exclaim:

ГўВҖВңAre you playing with justice, accused, and do you dare set your
fellow-citizens an example of disorder which even in these times has
never been equalled?ГўВҖВқ

Several persons hurried up to M. de Villefort, who sat half bowed over
in his chair, offering him consolation, encouragement, and
protestations of zeal and sympathy. Order was re-established in the
hall, except that a few people still moved about and whispered to one
another. A lady, it was said, had just fainted; they had supplied her
with a smelling-bottle, and she had recovered. During the scene of
tumult, Andrea had turned his smiling face towards the assembly; then,
leaning with one hand on the oaken rail of the dock, in the most
graceful attitude possible, he said:

ГўВҖВңGentlemen, I assure you I had no idea of insulting the court, or of
making a useless disturbance in the presence of this honorable
assembly. They ask my age; I tell it. They ask where I was born; I
answer. They ask my name, I cannot give it, since my parents abandoned
me. But though I cannot give my own name, not possessing one, I can
tell them my fatherГўВҖВҷs. Now I repeat, my father is named M. de
Villefort, and I am ready to prove it.ГўВҖВқ

There was an energy, a conviction, and a sincerity in the manner of the
young man, which silenced the tumult. All eyes were turned for a moment
towards the procureur, who sat as motionless as though a thunderbolt
had changed him into a corpse.

ГўВҖВңGentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said Andrea, commanding silence by his voice and manner;
ГўВҖВңI owe you the proofs and explanations of what I have said.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ said the irritated president, ГўВҖВңyou called yourself Benedetto,
declared yourself an orphan, and claimed Corsica as your country.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI said anything I pleased, in order that the solemn declaration I have
just made should not be withheld, which otherwise would certainly have
been the case. I now repeat that I was born at Auteuil on the night of
the 27th of September, 1817, and that I am the son of the procureur, M.
de Villefort. Do you wish for any further details? I will give them. I
was born in No. 28, Rue de la Fontaine, in a room hung with red damask;
my father took me in his arms, telling my mother I was dead, wrapped me
in a napkin marked with an H and an N, and carried me into a garden,
where he buried me alive.ГўВҖВқ

A shudder ran through the assembly when they saw that the confidence of
the prisoner increased in proportion to the terror of M. de Villefort.

ГўВҖВңBut how have you become acquainted with all these details?ГўВҖВқ asked the
president.

ГўВҖВңI will tell you, Mr. President. A man who had sworn vengeance against
my father, and had long watched his opportunity to kill him, had
introduced himself that night into the garden in which my father buried
me. He was concealed in a thicket; he saw my father bury something in
the ground, and stabbed him; then thinking the deposit might contain
some treasure he turned up the ground, and found me still living. The
man carried me to the foundling asylum, where I was registered under
the number 37. Three months afterwards, a woman travelled from Rogliano
to Paris to fetch me, and having claimed me as her son, carried me
away. Thus, you see, though born in Paris, I was brought up in
Corsica.ГўВҖВқ

There was a momentГўВҖВҷs silence, during which one could have fancied the
hall empty, so profound was the stillness.

ГўВҖВңProceed,ГўВҖВқ said the president.

ГўВҖВңCertainly, I might have lived happily amongst those good people, who
adored me, but my perverse disposition prevailed over the virtues which
my adopted mother endeavored to instil into my heart. I increased in
wickedness till I committed crime. One day when I cursed Providence for
making me so wicked, and ordaining me to such a fate, my adopted father
said to me, ГўВҖВҳDo not blaspheme, unhappy child, the crime is that of your
father, not yours,ГўВҖВ”of your father, who consigned you to hell if you
died, and to misery if a miracle preserved you alive.ГўВҖВҷ After that I
ceased to blaspheme, but I cursed my father. That is why I have uttered
the words for which you blame me; that is why I have filled this whole
assembly with horror. If I have committed an additional crime, punish
me, but if you will allow that ever since the day of my birth my fate
has been sad, bitter, and lamentable, then pity me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut your mother?ГўВҖВқ asked the president.

ГўВҖВңMy mother thought me dead; she is not guilty. I did not even wish to
know her name, nor do I know it.ГўВҖВқ

Just then a piercing cry, ending in a sob, burst from the centre of the
crowd, who encircled the lady who had before fainted, and who now fell
into a violent fit of hysterics. She was carried out of the hall, the
thick veil which concealed her face dropped off, and Madame Danglars
was recognized. Notwithstanding his shattered nerves, the ringing
sensation in his ears, and the madness which turned his brain,
Villefort rose as he perceived her.

ГўВҖВңThe proofs, the proofs!ГўВҖВқ said the president; ГўВҖВңremember this tissue of
horrors must be supported by the clearest proofs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe proofs?ГўВҖВқ said Benedetto, laughing; ГўВҖВңdo you want proofs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, look at M. de Villefort, and then ask me for proofs.ГўВҖВқ

Everyone turned towards the procureur, who, unable to bear the
universal gaze now riveted on him alone, advanced staggering into the
midst of the tribunal, with his hair dishevelled and his face indented
with the mark of his nails. The whole assembly uttered a long murmur of
astonishment.

ГўВҖВңFather,ГўВҖВқ said Benedetto, ГўВҖВңI am asked for proofs, do you wish me to
give them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, no, it is useless,ГўВҖВқ stammered M. de Villefort in a hoarse voice;
ГўВҖВңno, it is useless!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow useless?ГўВҖВқ cried the president, ГўВҖВңwhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean that I feel it impossible to struggle against this deadly
weight which crushes me. Gentlemen, I know I am in the hands of an
avenging God! We need no proofs; everything relating to this young man
is true.ГўВҖВқ

A dull, gloomy silence, like that which precedes some awful phenomenon
of nature, pervaded the assembly, who shuddered in dismay.

ГўВҖВңWhat, M. de Villefort,ГўВҖВқ cried the president, ГўВҖВңdo you yield to an
hallucination? What, are you no longer in possession of your senses?
This strange, unexpected, terrible accusation has disordered your
reason. Come, recover.ГўВҖВқ

The procureur dropped his head; his teeth chattered like those of a man
under a violent attack of fever, and yet he was deadly pale.

ГўВҖВңI am in possession of all my senses, sir,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңmy body alone
suffers, as you may suppose. I acknowledge myself guilty of all the
young man has brought against me, and from this hour hold myself under
the authority of the procureur who will succeed me.ГўВҖВқ

And as he spoke these words with a hoarse, choking voice, he staggered
towards the door, which was mechanically opened by a door-keeper. The
whole assembly were dumb with astonishment at the revelation and
confession which had produced a catastrophe so different from that
which had been expected during the last fortnight by the Parisian
world.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp, ГўВҖВңlet them now say that drama is unnatural!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi!_ГўВҖВқ said ChГғВўteau-Renaud, ГўВҖВңI would rather end my career like M.
de Morcerf; a pistol-shot seems quite delightful compared with this
catastrophe.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd moreover, it kills,ГўВҖВқ said Beauchamp.

ГўВҖВңAnd to think that I had an idea of marrying his daughter,ГўВҖВқ said
Debray. ГўВҖВңShe did well to die, poor girl!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe sitting is adjourned, gentlemen,ГўВҖВқ said the president; ГўВҖВңfresh
inquiries will be made, and the case will be tried next session by
another magistrate.ГўВҖВқ

As for Andrea, who was calm and more interesting than ever, he left the
hall, escorted by gendarmes, who involuntarily paid him some attention.

ГўВҖВңWell, what do you think of this, my fine fellow?ГўВҖВқ asked Debray of the
sergeant-at-arms, slipping a louis into his hand.

ГўВҖВңThere will be extenuating circumstances,ГўВҖВқ he replied.



 Chapter 111. Expiation

Notwithstanding the density of the crowd, M. de Villefort saw it open
before him. There is something so awe-inspiring in great afflictions
that even in the worst times the first emotion of a crowd has generally
been to sympathize with the sufferer in a great catastrophe. Many
people have been assassinated in a tumult, but even criminals have
rarely been insulted during trial. Thus Villefort passed through the
mass of spectators and officers of the Palais, and withdrew. Though he
had acknowledged his guilt, he was protected by his grief. There are
some situations which men understand by instinct, but which reason is
powerless to explain; in such cases the greatest poet is he who gives
utterance to the most natural and vehement outburst of sorrow. Those
who hear the bitter cry are as much impressed as if they listened to an
entire poem, and when the sufferer is sincere they are right in
regarding his outburst as sublime.

It would be difficult to describe the state of stupor in which
Villefort left the Palais. Every pulse beat with feverish excitement,
every nerve was strained, every vein swollen, and every part of his
body seemed to suffer distinctly from the rest, thus multiplying his
agony a thousand-fold. He made his way along the corridors through
force of habit; he threw aside his magisterial robe, not out of
deference to etiquette, but because it was an unbearable burden, a
veritable garb of Nessus, insatiate in torture. Having staggered as far
as the Rue Dauphine, he perceived his carriage, awoke his sleeping
coachman by opening the door himself, threw himself on the cushions,
and pointed towards the Faubourg Saint-HonorГғВ©; the carriage drove on.

All the weight of his fallen fortune seemed suddenly to crush him; he
could not foresee the consequences; he could not contemplate the future
with the indifference of the hardened criminal who merely faces a
contingency already familiar.



God was still in his heart. ГўВҖВңGod,ГўВҖВқ he murmured, not knowing what he
said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңGodГўВҖВ”God!ГўВҖВқ Behind the event that had overwhelmed him he saw the
hand of God. The carriage rolled rapidly onward. Villefort, while
turning restlessly on the cushions, felt something press against him.
He put out his hand to remove the object; it was a fan which Madame de
Villefort had left in the carriage; this fan awakened a recollection
which darted through his mind like lightning. He thought of his wife.

50189m



ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, as though a red-hot iron were piercing his heart.

During the last hour his own crime had alone been presented to his
mind; now another object, not less terrible, suddenly presented itself.
His wife! He had just acted the inexorable judge with her, he had
condemned her to death, and she, crushed by remorse, struck with
terror, covered with the shame inspired by the eloquence of _his_
irreproachable virtue,ГўВҖВ”she, a poor, weak woman, without help or the
power of defending herself against his absolute and supreme will,ГўВҖВ”she
might at that very moment, perhaps, be preparing to die!

An hour had elapsed since her condemnation; at that moment, doubtless,
she was recalling all her crimes to her memory; she was asking pardon
for her sins; perhaps she was even writing a letter imploring
forgiveness from her virtuous husbandГўВҖВ”a forgiveness she was purchasing
with her death! Villefort again groaned with anguish and despair.

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңthat woman became criminal only from associating
with me! I carried the infection of crime with me, and she has caught
it as she would the typhus fever, the cholera, the plague! And yet I
have punished herГўВҖВ”I have dared to tell herГўВҖВ”_I_ haveГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳRepent and die!ГўВҖВҷ
But no, she must not die; she shall live, and with me. We will flee
from Paris and go as far as the earth reaches. I told her of the
scaffold; oh, Heavens, I forgot that it awaits me also! How could I
pronounce that word? Yes, we will fly; I will confess all to her,ГўВҖВ”I
will tell her daily that I also have committed a crime!ГўВҖВ”Oh, what an
allianceГўВҖВ”the tiger and the serpent; worthy wife of such as I am! She
_must_ live that my infamy may diminish hers.ГўВҖВқ

And Villefort dashed open the window in front of the carriage.

ГўВҖВңFaster, faster!ГўВҖВқ he cried, in a tone which electrified the coachman.
The horses, impelled by fear, flew towards the house.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ repeated Villefort, as he approached his homeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңyes, that
woman must live; she must repent, and educate my son, the sole
survivor, with the exception of the indestructible old man, of the
wreck of my house. She loves him; it was for his sake she has committed
these crimes. We ought never to despair of softening the heart of a
mother who loves her child. She will repent, and no one will know that
she has been guilty. The events which have taken place in my house,
though they now occupy the public mind, will be forgotten in time, or
if, indeed, a few enemies should persist in remembering them, why then
I will add them to my list of crimes. What will it signify if one, two,
or three more are added? My wife and child shall escape from this gulf,
carrying treasures with them; she will live and may yet be happy, since
her child, in whom all her love is centred, will be with her. I shall
have performed a good action, and my heart will be lighter.ГўВҖВқ

And the procureur breathed more freely than he had done for some time.

50191m



The carriage stopped at the door of the house. Villefort leaped out of
the carriage, and saw that his servants were surprised at his early
return; he could read no other expression on their features. Neither of
them spoke to him; they merely stood aside to let him pass by, as
usual, nothing more. As he passed by M. NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room, he perceived
two figures through the half-open door; but he experienced no curiosity
to know who was visiting his father; anxiety carried him on further.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ he said, as he ascended the stairs leading to his wifeГўВҖВҷs room,
ГўВҖВңnothing is changed here.ГўВҖВқ

He then closed the door of the landing.

ГўВҖВңNo one must disturb us,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңI must speak freely to her, accuse
myself, and sayГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”he approached the door, touched the crystal handle,
which yielded to his hand. ГўВҖВңNot locked,ГўВҖВқ he cried; ГўВҖВңthat is well.ГўВҖВқ

And he entered the little room in which Edward slept; for though the
child went to school during the day, his mother could not allow him to
be separated from her at night. With a single glance VillefortГўВҖВҷs eye
ran through the room.

ГўВҖВңNot here,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңdoubtless she is in her bedroom.ГўВҖВқ He rushed
towards the door, found it bolted, and stopped, shuddering.

ГўВҖВңHГғВ©loГғВҜse!ГўВҖВқ he cried. He fancied he heard the sound of a piece of
furniture being removed.

ГўВҖВңHГғВ©loГғВҜse!ГўВҖВқ he repeated.

ГўВҖВңWho is there?ГўВҖВқ answered the voice of her he sought. He thought that
voice more feeble than usual.

ГўВҖВңOpen the door!ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort. ГўВҖВңOpen; it is I.ГўВҖВқ

But notwithstanding this request, notwithstanding the tone of anguish
in which it was uttered, the door remained closed. Villefort burst it
open with a violent blow. At the entrance of the room which led to her
boudoir, Madame de Villefort was standing erect, pale, her features
contracted, and her eyes glaring horribly.

ГўВҖВңHГғВ©loГғВҜse, HГғВ©loГғВҜse!ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңwhat is the matter? Speak!ГўВҖВқ The young
woman extended her stiff white hands towards him.

ГўВҖВңIt is done, monsieur,ГўВҖВқ she said with a rattling noise which seemed to
tear her throat. ГўВҖВңWhat more do you want?ГўВҖВқ and she fell full length on
the floor.

Villefort ran to her and seized her hand, which convulsively clasped a
crystal bottle with a golden stopper. Madame de Villefort was dead.
Villefort, maddened with horror, stepped back to the threshhold of the
door, fixing his eyes on the corpse.

ГўВҖВңMy son!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed suddenly, ГўВҖВңwhere is my son?ГўВҖВ”Edward, Edward!ГўВҖВқ and
he rushed out of the room, still crying, ГўВҖВңEdward, Edward!ГўВҖВқ The name was
pronounced in such a tone of anguish that the servants ran up.

ГўВҖВңWhere is my son?ГўВҖВқ asked Villefort; ГўВҖВңlet him be removed from the house,
that he may not seeГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMaster Edward is not downstairs, sir,ГўВҖВқ replied the valet.

ГўВҖВңThen he must be playing in the garden; go and see.ГўВҖВқ

50193m



ГўВҖВңNo, sir; Madame de Villefort sent for him half an hour ago; he went
into her room, and has not been downstairs since.ГўВҖВқ

A cold perspiration burst out on VillefortГўВҖВҷs brow; his legs trembled,
and his thoughts flew about madly in his brain like the wheels of a
disordered watch.

ГўВҖВңIn Madame de VillefortГўВҖВҷs room?ГўВҖВқ he murmured and slowly returned, with
one hand wiping his forehead, and with the other supporting himself
against the wall. To enter the room he must again see the body of his
unfortunate wife. To call Edward he must reawaken the echo of that room
which now appeared like a sepulchre; to speak seemed like violating the
silence of the tomb. His tongue was paralyzed in his mouth.

ГўВҖВңEdward!ГўВҖВқ he stammeredГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңEdward!ГўВҖВқ

The child did not answer. Where, then, could he be, if he had entered
his motherГўВҖВҷs room and not since returned? He stepped forward. The
corpse of Madame de Villefort was stretched across the doorway leading
to the room in which Edward must be; those glaring eyes seemed to watch
over the threshold, and the lips bore the stamp of a terrible and
mysterious irony. Through the open door was visible a portion of the
boudoir, containing an upright piano and a blue satin couch. Villefort
stepped forward two or three paces, and beheld his child lyingГўВҖВ”no doubt
asleepГўВҖВ”on the sofa. The unhappy man uttered an exclamation of joy; a
ray of light seemed to penetrate the abyss of despair and darkness. He
had only to step over the corpse, enter the boudoir, take the child in
his arms, and flee far, far away.

Villefort was no longer the civilized man; he was a tiger hurt unto
death, gnashing his teeth in his wound. He no longer feared realities,
but phantoms. He leaped over the corpse as if it had been a burning
brazier. He took the child in his arms, embraced him, shook him, called
him, but the child made no response. He pressed his burning lips to the
cheeks, but they were icy cold and pale; he felt the stiffened limbs;
he pressed his hand upon the heart, but it no longer beat,ГўВҖВ”the child
was dead.

A folded paper fell from EdwardГўВҖВҷs breast. Villefort, thunderstruck,
fell upon his knees; the child dropped from his arms, and rolled on the
floor by the side of its mother. He picked up the paper, and,
recognizing his wifeГўВҖВҷs writing, ran his eyes rapidly over its contents;
it ran as follows:

ГўВҖВңYou know that I was a good mother, since it was for my sonГўВҖВҷs sake I
became criminal. A good mother cannot depart without her son.ГўВҖВқ

Villefort could not believe his eyes,ГўВҖВ”he could not believe his reason;
he dragged himself towards the childГўВҖВҷs body, and examined it as a
lioness contemplates its dead cub. Then a piercing cry escaped from his
breast, and he cried,

ГўВҖВңStill the hand of God.ГўВҖВқ

The presence of the two victims alarmed him; he could not bear solitude
shared only by two corpses. Until then he had been sustained by rage,
by his strength of mind, by despair, by the supreme agony which led the
Titans to scale the heavens, and Ajax to defy the gods. He now arose,
his head bowed beneath the weight of grief, and, shaking his damp,
dishevelled hair, he who had never felt compassion for anyone
determined to seek his father, that he might have someone to whom he
could relate his misfortunes,ГўВҖВ”someone by whose side he might weep.

50195m



He descended the little staircase with which we are acquainted, and
entered NoirtierГўВҖВҷs room. The old man appeared to be listening
attentively and as affectionately as his infirmities would allow to the
AbbГғВ© Busoni, who looked cold and calm, as usual. Villefort, perceiving
the abbГғВ©, passed his hand across his brow. The past came to him like
one of those waves whose wrath foams fiercer than the others.

He recollected the call he had made upon him after the dinner at
Auteuil, and then the visit the abbГғВ© had himself paid to his house on
the day of ValentineГўВҖВҷs death.

ГўВҖВңYou here, sir!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed; ГўВҖВңdo you, then, never appear but to act
as an escort to death?ГўВҖВқ

Busoni turned around, and, perceiving the excitement depicted on the
magistrateГўВҖВҷs face, the savage lustre of his eyes, he understood that
the revelation had been made at the assizes; but beyond this he was
ignorant.

ГўВҖВңI came to pray over the body of your daughter.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd now why are you here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI come to tell you that you have sufficiently repaid your debt, and
that from this moment I will pray to God to forgive you, as I do.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood heavens!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Villefort, stepping back fearfully, ГўВҖВңsurely
that is not the voice of the AbbГғВ© Busoni!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo!ГўВҖВқ The abbГғВ© threw off his wig, shook his head, and his hair, no
longer confined, fell in black masses around his manly face.

ГўВҖВңIt is the face of the Count of Monte Cristo!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the procureur,
with a haggard expression.

ГўВҖВңYou are not exactly right, M. Procureur; you must go farther back.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat voice, that voice!ГўВҖВ”where did I first hear it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou heard it for the first time at Marseilles, twenty-three years ago,
the day of your marriage with Mademoiselle de Saint-MГғВ©ran. Refer to
your papers.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are not Busoni?ГўВҖВ”you are not Monte Cristo? Oh, heavens! you are,
then, some secret, implacable, and mortal enemy! I must have wronged
you in some way at Marseilles. Oh, woe to me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; you are now on the right path,ГўВҖВқ said the count, crossing his arms
over his broad chest; ГўВҖВңsearchГўВҖВ”search!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what have I done to you?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Villefort, whose mind was
balancing between reason and insanity, in that cloud which is neither a
dream nor reality; ГўВҖВңwhat have I done to you? Tell me, then! Speak!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou condemned me to a horrible, tedious death; you killed my father;
you deprived me of liberty, of love, and happiness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho are you, then? Who are you?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am the spectre of a wretch you buried in the dungeons of the ChГғВўteau
dГўВҖВҷIf. God gave that spectre the form of the Count of Monte Cristo when
he at length issued from his tomb, enriched him with gold and diamonds,
and led him to you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, I recognize youГўВҖВ”I recognize you!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the kingГўВҖВҷs attorney;
ГўВҖВңyou areГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am Edmond DantГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are Edmond DantГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, seizing the count by the
wrist; ГўВҖВңthen come here!ГўВҖВқ

And up the stairs he dragged Monte Cristo; who, ignorant of what had
happened, followed him in astonishment, foreseeing some new
catastrophe.

ГўВҖВңThere, Edmond DantГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ he said, pointing to the bodies of his wife and
child, ГўВҖВңsee, are you well avenged?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo became pale at this horrible sight; he felt that he had
passed beyond the bounds of vengeance, and that he could no longer say,
ГўВҖВңGod is for and with me.ГўВҖВқ With an expression of indescribable anguish
he threw himself upon the body of the child, reopened its eyes, felt
its pulse, and then rushed with him into ValentineГўВҖВҷs room, of which he
double-locked the door.

ГўВҖВңMy child,ГўВҖВқ cried Villefort, ГўВҖВңhe carries away the body of my child! Oh,
curses, woe, death to you!ГўВҖВқ

He tried to follow Monte Cristo; but as though in a dream he was
transfixed to the spot,ГўВҖВ”his eyes glared as though they were starting
through the sockets; he griped the flesh on his chest until his nails
were stained with blood; the veins of his temples swelled and boiled as
though they would burst their narrow boundary, and deluge his brain
with living fire. This lasted several minutes, until the frightful
overturn of reason was accomplished; then uttering a loud cry followed
by a burst of laughter, he rushed down the stairs.

A quarter of an hour afterwards the door of ValentineГўВҖВҷs room opened,
and Monte Cristo reappeared. Pale, with a dull eye and heavy heart, all
the noble features of that face, usually so calm and serene, were
overcast by grief. In his arms he held the child, whom no skill had
been able to recall to life. Bending on one knee, he placed it
reverently by the side of its mother, with its head upon her breast.
Then, rising, he went out, and meeting a servant on the stairs, he
asked:

ГўВҖВңWhere is M. de Villefort?ГўВҖВқ

The servant, instead of answering, pointed to the garden. Monte Cristo
ran down the steps, and advancing towards the spot designated beheld
Villefort, encircled by his servants, with a spade in his hand, and
digging the earth with fury.

ГўВҖВңIt is not here!ГўВҖВқ he cried. ГўВҖВңIt is not here!ГўВҖВқ

50197m



And then he moved farther on, and began again to dig.

Monte Cristo approached him, and said in a low voice, with an
expression almost humble:

ГўВҖВңSir, you have indeed lost a son; butГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

Villefort interrupted him; he had neither listened nor heard.

ГўВҖВңOh, I _will_ find it,ГўВҖВқ he cried; ГўВҖВңyou may pretend he is not here, but
I _will_ find him, though I dig forever!ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo drew back in horror.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңhe is mad!ГўВҖВқ And as though he feared that the walls of
the accursed house would crumble around him, he rushed into the street,
for the first time doubting whether he had the right to do as he had
done. ГўВҖВңOh, enough of this,ГўВҖВ”enough of this,ГўВҖВқ he cried; ГўВҖВңlet me save the
last.ГўВҖВқ On entering his house, he met Morrel, who wandered about like a
ghost awaiting the heavenly mandate for return to the tomb.

ГўВҖВңPrepare yourself, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ he said with a smile; ГўВҖВңwe leave Paris
tomorrow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you nothing more to do there?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңGod grant I may not have done too much
already.ГўВҖВқ

The next day they indeed left, accompanied only by Baptistin. HaydГғВ©e
had taken away Ali, and Bertuccio remained with Noirtier.



 Chapter 112. The Departure

The recent events formed the theme of conversation throughout all
Paris. Emmanuel and his wife conversed with natural astonishment in
their little apartment in the Rue Meslay upon the three successive,
sudden, and most unexpected catastrophes of Morcerf, Danglars, and
Villefort. Maximilian, who was paying them a visit, listened to their
conversation, or rather was present at it, plunged in his accustomed
state of apathy.

ГўВҖВңIndeed,ГўВҖВқ said Julie, ГўВҖВңmight we not almost fancy, Emmanuel, that those
people, so rich, so happy but yesterday, had forgotten in their
prosperity that an evil geniusГўВҖВ”like the wicked fairies in PerraultГўВҖВҷs
stories who present themselves unbidden at a wedding or baptismГўВҖВ”hovered
over them, and appeared all at once to revenge himself for their fatal
neglect?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat a dire misfortune!ГўВҖВқ said Emmanuel, thinking of Morcerf and
Danglars.

ГўВҖВңWhat dreadful sufferings!ГўВҖВқ said Julie, remembering Valentine, but
whom, with a delicacy natural to women, she did not name before her
brother.

ГўВҖВңIf the Supreme Being has directed the fatal blow,ГўВҖВқ said Emmanuel, ГўВҖВңit
must be that he in his great goodness has perceived nothing in the past
lives of these people to merit mitigation of their awful punishment.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you not form a very rash judgment, Emmanuel?ГўВҖВқ said Julie. ГўВҖВңWhen my
father, with a pistol in his hand, was once on the point of committing
suicide, had anyone then said, ГўВҖВҳThis man deserves his misery,ГўВҖВҷ would
not that person have been deceived?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but your father was not allowed to fall. A being was commissioned
to arrest the fatal hand of death about to descend on him.ГўВҖВқ

Emmanuel had scarcely uttered these words when the sound of the bell
was heard, the well-known signal given by the porter that a visitor had
arrived. Nearly at the same instant the door was opened and the Count
of Monte Cristo appeared on the threshold. The young people uttered a
cry of joy, while Maximilian raised his head, but let it fall again
immediately.

50201m



ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ said the count, without appearing to notice the different
impressions which his presence produced on the little circle, ГўВҖВңI come
to seek you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo seek me?ГўВҖВқ repeated Morrel, as if awakening from a dream.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңhas it not been agreed that I should take
you with me, and did I not tell you yesterday to prepare for
departure?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am ready,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian; ГўВҖВңI came expressly to wish them
farewell.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhither are you going, count?ГўВҖВқ asked Julie.

ГўВҖВңIn the first instance to Marseilles, madame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo Marseilles!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed the young couple.

ГўВҖВңYes, and I take your brother with me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, count.ГўВҖВқ said Julie, ГўВҖВңwill you restore him to us cured of his
melancholy?ГўВҖВқ Morrel turned away to conceal the confusion of his
countenance.

ГўВҖВңYou perceive, then, that he is not happy?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ replied the young woman; ГўВҖВңand fear much that he finds our home
but a dull one.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will undertake to divert him,ГўВҖВқ replied the count.

ГўВҖВңI am ready to accompany you, sir,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian. ГўВҖВңAdieu, my kind
friends! EmmanuelГўВҖВ”JulieГўВҖВ”farewell!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow farewell?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Julie; ГўВҖВңdo you leave us thus, so suddenly,
without any preparations for your journey, without even a passport?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNeedless delays but increase the grief of parting,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo,
ГўВҖВңand Maximilian has doubtless provided himself with everything
requisite; at least, I advised him to do so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have a passport, and my clothes are ready packed,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel in
his tranquil but mournful manner.

ГўВҖВңGood,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, smiling; ГўВҖВңin these prompt arrangements we
recognize the order of a well-disciplined soldier.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd you leave us,ГўВҖВқ said Julie, ГўВҖВңat a momentГўВҖВҷs warning? you do not give
us a dayГўВҖВ”no, not even an hour before your departure?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy carriage is at the door, madame, and I must be in Rome in five
days.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut does Maximilian go to Rome?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Emmanuel.

ГўВҖВңI am going wherever it may please the count to take me,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel,
with a smile full of grief; ГўВҖВңI am under his orders for the next month.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, heavens, how strangely he expresses himself, count!ГўВҖВқ said Julie.

ГўВҖВңMaximilian goes with _me_,ГўВҖВқ said the count, in his kindest and most
persuasive manner; ГўВҖВңtherefore do not make yourself uneasy on your
brotherГўВҖВҷs account.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOnce more farewell, my dear sister; Emmanuel, adieu!ГўВҖВқ Morrel repeated.

ГўВҖВңHis carelessness and indifference touch me to the heart,ГўВҖВқ said Julie.
ГўВҖВңOh, Maximilian, Maximilian, you are certainly concealing something
from us.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPshaw!ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou will see him return to you gay,
smiling, and joyful.ГўВҖВқ

Maximilian cast a look of disdain, almost of anger, on the count.

ГўВҖВңWe must leave you,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo.

50203m



ГўВҖВңBefore you quit us, count,ГўВҖВқ said Julie, ГўВҖВңwill you permit us to express
to you all that the other dayГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ interrupted the count, taking her two hands in his, ГўВҖВңall that
you could say in words would never express what I read in your eyes;
the thoughts of your heart are fully understood by mine. Like
benefactors in romances, I should have left you without seeing you
again, but that would have been a virtue beyond my strength, because I
am a weak and vain man, fond of the tender, kind, and thankful glances
of my fellow-creatures. On the eve of departure I carry my egotism so
far as to say, ГўВҖВҳDo not forget me, my kind friends, for probably you
will never see me again.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever see you again?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Emmanuel, while two large tears rolled
down JulieГўВҖВҷs cheeks, ГўВҖВңnever behold you again? It is not a man, then,
but some angel that leaves us, and this angel is on the point of
returning to heaven after having appeared on earth to do good.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSay not so,ГўВҖВқ quickly returned Monte CristoГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңsay not so, my friends;
angels never err, celestial beings remain where they wish to be. Fate
is not more powerful than they; it is they who, on the contrary,
overcome fate. No, Emmanuel, I am but a man, and your admiration is as
unmerited as your words are sacrilegious.ГўВҖВқ

And pressing his lips on the hand of Julie, who rushed into his arms,
he extended his other hand to Emmanuel; then tearing himself from this
abode of peace and happiness, he made a sign to Maximilian, who
followed him passively, with the indifference which had been
perceptible in him ever since the death of Valentine had so stunned
him.

ГўВҖВңRestore my brother to peace and happiness,ГўВҖВқ whispered Julie to Monte
Cristo. And the count pressed her hand in reply, as he had done eleven
years before on the staircase leading to MorrelГўВҖВҷs study.

ГўВҖВңYou still confide, then, in Sinbad the Sailor?ГўВҖВқ asked he, smiling.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ was the ready answer.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, sleep in peace, and put your trust in the Lord.ГўВҖВқ

As we have before said, the post-chaise was waiting; four powerful
horses were already pawing the ground with impatience, while Ali,
apparently just arrived from a long walk, was standing at the foot of
the steps, his face bathed in perspiration.

ГўВҖВңWell,ГўВҖВқ asked the count in Arabic, ГўВҖВңhave you been to see the old man?ГўВҖВқ
Ali made a sign in the affirmative.

ГўВҖВңAnd have you placed the letter before him, as I ordered you to do?ГўВҖВқ

The slave respectfully signalized that he had.

ГўВҖВңAnd what did he say, or rather do?ГўВҖВқ Ali placed himself in the light,
so that his master might see him distinctly, and then imitating in his
intelligent manner the countenance of the old man, he closed his eyes,
as Noirtier was in the custom of doing when saying ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGood; he accepts,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңNow let us go.ГўВҖВқ

50205m



These words had scarcely escaped him, when the carriage was on its way,
and the feet of the horses struck a shower of sparks from the pavement.
Maximilian settled himself in his corner without uttering a word. Half
an hour had passed when the carriage stopped suddenly; the count had
just pulled the silken check-string, which was fastened to AliГўВҖВҷs
finger. The Nubian immediately descended and opened the carriage door.
It was a lovely starlight nightГўВҖВ”they had just reached the top of the
hill Villejuif, from whence Paris appears like a sombre sea tossing its
millions of phosphoric waves into lightГўВҖВ”waves indeed more noisy, more
passionate, more changeable, more furious, more greedy, than those of
the tempestuous ocean,ГўВҖВ”waves which never rest as those of the sea
sometimes do,ГўВҖВ”waves ever dashing, ever foaming, ever ingulfing what
falls within their grasp.

The count stood alone, and at a sign from his hand, the carriage went
on for a short distance. With folded arms, he gazed for some time upon
the great city. When he had fixed his piercing look on this modern
Babylon, which equally engages the contemplation of the religious
enthusiast, the materialist, and the scoffer,ГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңGreat city,ГўВҖВқ murmured he, inclining his head, and joining his hands as
if in prayer, ГўВҖВңless than six months have elapsed since first I entered
thy gates. I believe that the Spirit of God led my steps to thee and
that he also enables me to quit thee in triumph; the secret cause of my
presence within thy walls I have confided alone to him who only has had
the power to read my heart. God only knows that I retire from thee
without pride or hatred, but not without many regrets; he only knows
that the power confided to me has never been made subservient to my
personal good or to any useless cause. Oh, great city, it is in thy
palpitating bosom that I have found that which I sought; like a patient
miner, I have dug deep into thy very entrails to root out evil thence.
Now my work is accomplished, my mission is terminated, now thou canst
neither afford me pain nor pleasure. Adieu, Paris, adieu!ГўВҖВқ

His look wandered over the vast plain like that of some genius of the
night; he passed his hand over his brow, got into the carriage, the
door was closed on him, and the vehicle quickly disappeared down the
other side of the hill in a whirlwind of dust and noise.

Ten leagues were passed and not a single word was uttered. Morrel was
dreaming, and Monte Cristo was looking at the dreamer.

ГўВҖВңMorrel,ГўВҖВқ said the count to him at length, ГўВҖВңdo you repent having
followed me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, count; but to leave ParisГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I thought happiness might await you in Paris, Morrel, I would have
left you there.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңValentine reposes within the walls of Paris, and to leave Paris is
like losing her a second time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthe friends that we have lost do not
repose in the bosom of the earth, but are buried deep in our hearts,
and it has been thus ordained that we may always be accompanied by
them. I have two friends, who in this way never depart from me; the one
who gave me being, and the other who conferred knowledge and
intelligence on me. Their spirits live in me. I consult them when
doubtful, and if I ever do any good, it is due to their beneficent
counsels. Listen to the voice of your heart, Morrel, and ask it whether
you ought to preserve this melancholy exterior towards me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңthe voice of my heart is very sorrowful,
and promises me nothing but misfortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is the way of weakened minds to see everything through a black
cloud. The soul forms its own horizons; your soul is darkened, and
consequently the sky of the future appears stormy and unpromising.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat may possibly be true,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, and he again subsided
into his thoughtful mood.

The journey was performed with that marvellous rapidity which the
unlimited power of the count ever commanded. Towns fled from them like
shadows on their path, and trees shaken by the first winds of autumn
seemed like giants madly rushing on to meet them, and retreating as
rapidly when once reached. The following morning they arrived at
ChГғВўlons, where the countГўВҖВҷs steamboat waited for them. Without the loss
of an instant, the carriage was placed on board and the two travellers
embarked without delay. The boat was built for speed; her two
paddle-wheels were like two wings with which she skimmed the water like
a bird.

Morrel was not insensible to that sensation of delight which is
generally experienced in passing rapidly through the air, and the wind
which occasionally raised the hair from his forehead seemed on the
point of dispelling momentarily the clouds collected there.

As the distance increased between the travellers and Paris, almost
superhuman serenity appeared to surround the count; he might have been
taken for an exile about to revisit his native land.

Ere long Marseilles presented herself to view,ГўВҖВ”Marseilles, white,
fervid, full of life and energy,ГўВҖВ”Marseilles, the younger sister of Tyre
and Carthage, the successor to them in the empire of the
Mediterranean,ГўВҖВ”Marseilles, old, yet always young. Powerful memories
were stirred within them by the sight of the round tower, Fort
Saint-Nicolas, the City Hall designed by Puget,28 the port with its
brick quays, where they had both played in childhood, and it was with
one accord that they stopped on the CanebiГғВЁre.

A vessel was setting sail for Algiers, on board of which the bustle
usually attending departure prevailed. The passengers and their
relations crowded on the deck, friends taking a tender but sorrowful
leave of each other, some weeping, others noisy in their grief, the
whole forming a spectacle that might be exciting even to those who
witnessed similar sights daily, but which had no power to disturb the
current of thought that had taken possession of the mind of Maximilian
from the moment he had set foot on the broad pavement of the quay.

ГўВҖВңHere,ГўВҖВқ said he, leaning heavily on the arm of Monte Cristo,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңhere is
the spot where my father stopped, when the _Pharaon_ entered the port;
it was here that the good old man, whom you saved from death and
dishonor, threw himself into my arms. I yet feel his warm tears on my
face, and his were not the only tears shed, for many who witnessed our
meeting wept also.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo gently smiled and said,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI was there;ГўВҖВқ at the same time
pointing to the corner of a street. As he spoke, and in the very
direction he indicated, a groan, expressive of bitter grief, was heard,
and a woman was seen waving her hand to a passenger on board the vessel
about to sail. Monte Cristo looked at her with an emotion that must
have been remarked by Morrel had not his eyes been fixed on the vessel.

ГўВҖВңOh, heavens!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel, ГўВҖВңI do not deceive myselfГўВҖВ”that young
man who is waving his hat, that youth in the uniform of a lieutenant,
is Albert de Morcerf!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI recognized him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВ”you were looking the other way.ГўВҖВқ

50209m



The count smiled, as he was in the habit of doing when he did not want
to make any reply, and he again turned towards the veiled woman, who
soon disappeared at the corner of the street. Turning to his friend:

ГўВҖВңDear Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңhave you nothing to do in this
land?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have to weep over the grave of my father,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel in a
broken voice.

ГўВҖВңWell, then, go,ГўВҖВ”wait for me there, and I will soon join you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou leave me, then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I also have a pious visit to pay.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel allowed his hand to fall into that which the count extended to
him; then with an inexpressibly sorrowful inclination of the head he
quitted the count and bent his steps to the east of the city. Monte
Cristo remained on the same spot until Maximilian was out of sight; he
then walked slowly towards the AllГғВ©es de Meilhan to seek out a small
house with which our readers were made familiar at the beginning of
this story.

It yet stood, under the shade of the fine avenue of lime-trees, which
forms one of the most frequent walks of the idlers of Marseilles,
covered by an immense vine, which spreads its aged and blackened
branches over the stone front, burnt yellow by the ardent sun of the
south. Two stone steps worn away by the friction of many feet led to
the door, which was made of three planks; the door had never been
painted or varnished, so great cracks yawned in it during the dry
season to close again when the rains came on. The house, with all its
crumbling antiquity and apparent misery, was yet cheerful and
picturesque, and was the same that old DantГғВЁs formerly inhabitedГўВҖВ”the
only difference being that the old man occupied merely the garret,
while the whole house was now placed at the command of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs by the
count.

The woman whom the count had seen leave the ship with so much regret
entered this house; she had scarcely closed the door after her when
Monte Cristo appeared at the corner of a street, so that he found and
lost her again almost at the same instant. The worn out steps were old
acquaintances of his; he knew better than anyone else how to open that
weather-beaten door with the large headed nail which served to raise
the latch within. He entered without knocking, or giving any other
intimation of his presence, as if he had been a friend or the master of
the place. At the end of a passage paved with bricks, was a little
garden, bathed in sunshine, and rich in warmth and light. In this
garden MercГғВ©dГғВЁs had found, at the place indicated by the count, the sum
of money which he, through a sense of delicacy, had described as having
been placed there twenty-four years previously. The trees of the garden
were easily seen from the steps of the street-door.

Monte Cristo, on stepping into the house, heard a sigh that was almost
a deep sob; he looked in the direction whence it came, and there under
an arbor of Virginia jessamine,29 with its thick foliage and beautiful
long purple flowers, he saw MercГғВ©dГғВЁs seated, with her head bowed, and
weeping bitterly. She had raised her veil, and with her face hidden by
her hands was giving free scope to the sighs and tears which had been
so long restrained by the presence of her son.

Monte Cristo advanced a few steps, which were heard on the gravel.
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs raised her head, and uttered a cry of terror on beholding a
man before her.

50211m



ГўВҖВңMadame,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңit is no longer in my power to restore you
to happiness, but I offer you consolation; will you deign to accept it
as coming from a friend?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am, indeed, most wretched,ГўВҖВқ replied MercГғВ©dГғВЁs. ГўВҖВңAlone in the world, I
had but my son, and he has left me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe possesses a noble heart, madame,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңand he has
acted rightly. He feels that every man owes a tribute to his country;
some contribute their talents, others their industry; these devote
their blood, those their nightly labors, to the same cause. Had he
remained with you, his life must have become a hateful burden, nor
would he have participated in your griefs. He will increase in strength
and honor by struggling with adversity, which he will convert into
prosperity. Leave him to build up the future for you, and I venture to
say you will confide it to safe hands.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ replied the wretched woman, mournfully shaking her head, ГўВҖВңthe
prosperity of which you speak, and which, from the bottom of my heart,
I pray God in his mercy to grant him, I can never enjoy. The bitter cup
of adversity has been drained by me to the very dregs, and I feel that
the grave is not far distant. You have acted kindly, count, in bringing
me back to the place where I have enjoyed so much bliss. I ought to
meet death on the same spot where happiness was once all my own.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyour words sear and embitter my heart, the
more so as you have every reason to hate me. I have been the cause of
all your misfortunes; but why do you pity, instead of blaming me? You
render me still more unhappyГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHate you, blame youГўВҖВ”_you_, Edmond! Hate, reproach, the man that has
spared my sonГўВҖВҷs life! For was it not your fatal and sanguinary
intention to destroy that son of whom M. de Morcerf was so proud? Oh,
look at me closely, and discover, if you can, even the semblance of a
reproach in me.ГўВҖВқ

The count looked up and fixed his eyes on MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, who arose partly
from her seat and extended both her hands towards him.

ГўВҖВңOh, look at me,ГўВҖВқ continued she, with a feeling of profound melancholy,
ГўВҖВңmy eyes no longer dazzle by their brilliancy, for the time has long
fled since I used to smile on Edmond DantГғВЁs, who anxiously looked out
for me from the window of yonder garret, then inhabited by his old
father. Years of grief have created an abyss between those days and the
present. I neither reproach you nor hate you, my friend. Oh, no,
Edmond, it is myself that I blame, myself that I hate! Oh, miserable
creature that I am!ГўВҖВқ cried she, clasping her hands, and raising her
eyes to heaven. ГўВҖВңI once possessed piety, innocence, and love, the three
ingredients of the happiness of angels, and now what am I?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo approached her, and silently took her hand.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ said she, withdrawing it gentlyГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңno, my friend, touch me not. You
have spared me, yet of all those who have fallen under your vengeance I
was the most guilty. They were influenced by hatred, by avarice, and by
self-love; but I was base, and for want of courage acted against my
judgment. Nay, do not press my hand, Edmond; you are thinking, I am
sure, of some kind speech to console me, but do not utter it to me,
reserve it for others more worthy of your kindness. SeeГўВҖВқ (and she
exposed her face completely to view)ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңsee, misfortune has silvered my
hair, my eyes have shed so many tears that they are encircled by a rim
of purple, and my brow is wrinkled. You, Edmond, on the contrary,ГўВҖВ”you
are still young, handsome, dignified; it is because you have had faith;
because you have had strength, because you have had trust in God, and
God has sustained you. But as for me, I have been a coward; I have
denied God and he has abandoned me.ГўВҖВқ

50213m



MercГғВ©dГғВЁs burst into tears; her womanГўВҖВҷs heart was breaking under its
load of memories. Monte Cristo took her hand and imprinted a kiss on
it; but she herself felt that it was a kiss of no greater warmth than
he would have bestowed on the hand of some marble statue of a saint.

ГўВҖВңIt often happens,ГўВҖВқ continued she, ГўВҖВңthat a first fault destroys the
prospects of a whole life. I believed you dead; why did I survive you?
What good has it done me to mourn for you eternally in the secret
recesses of my heart?ГўВҖВ”only to make a woman of thirty-nine look like a
woman of fifty. Why, having recognized you, and I the only one to do
soГўВҖВ”why was I able to save my son alone? Ought I not also to have
rescued the man that I had accepted for a husband, guilty though he
were? Yet I let him die! What do I say? Oh, merciful heavens, was I not
accessory to his death by my supine insensibility, by my contempt for
him, not remembering, or not willing to remember, that it was for my
sake he had become a traitor and a perjurer? In what am I benefited by
accompanying my son so far, since I now abandon him, and allow him to
depart alone to the baneful climate of Africa? Oh, I have been base,
cowardly, I tell you; I have abjured my affections, and like all
renegades I am of evil omen to those who surround me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңno; you judge yourself with too
much severity. You are a noble-minded woman, and it was your grief that
disarmed me. Still I was but an agent, led on by an invisible and
offended Deity, who chose not to withhold the fatal blow that I was
destined to hurl. I take that God to witness, at whose feet I have
prostrated myself daily for the last ten years, that I would have
sacrificed my life to you, and with my life the projects that were
indissolubly linked with it. ButГўВҖВ”and I say it with some pride,
MercГғВ©dГғВЁsГўВҖВ”God needed me, and I lived. Examine the past and the present,
and endeavor to dive into futurity, and then say whether I am not a
divine instrument. The most dreadful misfortunes, the most frightful
sufferings, the abandonment of all those who loved me, the persecution
of those who did not know me, formed the trials of my youth; when
suddenly, from captivity, solitude, misery, I was restored to light and
liberty, and became the possessor of a fortune so brilliant, so
unbounded, so unheard-of, that I must have been blind not to be
conscious that God had endowed me with it to work out his own great
designs. From that time I looked upon this fortune as something
confided to me for a particular purpose. Not a thought was given to a
life which you once, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, had the power to render blissful; not
one hour of peaceful calm was mine; but I felt myself driven on like an
exterminating angel. Like adventurous captains about to embark on some
enterprise full of danger, I laid in my provisions, I loaded my
weapons, I collected every means of attack and defence; I inured my
body to the most violent exercises, my soul to the bitterest trials; I
taught my arm to slay, my eyes to behold excruciating sufferings, and
my mouth to smile at the most horrid spectacles. Good-natured,
confiding, and forgiving as I had been, I became revengeful, cunning,
and wicked, or rather, immovable as fate. Then I launched out into the
path that was opened to me. I overcame every obstacle, and reached the
goal; but woe to those who stood in my pathway!ГўВҖВқ

50215m



ГўВҖВңEnough,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs; ГўВҖВңenough, Edmond! Believe me, that she who
alone recognized you has been the only one to comprehend you; and had
she crossed your path, and you had crushed her like glass, still,
Edmond, still she must have admired you! Like the gulf between me and
the past, there is an abyss between you, Edmond, and the rest of
mankind; and I tell you freely that the comparison I draw between you
and other men will ever be one of my greatest tortures. No, there is
nothing in the world to resemble you in worth and goodness! But we must
say farewell, Edmond, and let us part.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBefore I leave you, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, have you no request to make?ГўВҖВқ said the
count.

ГўВҖВңI desire but one thing in this world, Edmond,ГўВҖВ”the happiness of my
son.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPray to the Almighty to spare his life, and I will take upon myself to
promote his happiness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThank you, Edmond.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut have you no request to make for yourself, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFor myself I want nothing. I live, as it were, between two graves. One
is that of Edmond DantГғВЁs, lost to me long, long since. He had my love!
That word ill becomes my faded lip now, but it is a memory dear to my
heart, and one that I would not lose for all that the world contains.
The other grave is that of the man who met his death from the hand of
Edmond DantГғВЁs. I approve of the deed, but I must pray for the dead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour son shall be happy, MercГғВ©dГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ repeated the count.

ГўВҖВңThen I shall enjoy as much happiness as this world can possibly
confer.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut what are your intentions?ГўВҖВқ

MercГғВ©dГғВЁs smiled sadly.

ГўВҖВңTo say that I shall live here, like the MercГғВ©dГғВЁs of other times,
gaining my bread by labor, would not be true, nor would you believe me.
I have no longer the strength to do anything but to spend my days in
prayer. However, I shall have no occasion to work, for the little sum
of money buried by you, and which I found in the place you mentioned,
will be sufficient to maintain me. Rumor will probably be busy
respecting me, my occupations, my manner of livingГўВҖВ”that will signify
but little, that concerns God, you, and myself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMercГғВ©dГғВЁs,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI do not say it to blame you, but you made
an unnecessary sacrifice in relinquishing the whole of the fortune
amassed by M. de Morcerf; half of it at least by right belonged to you,
in virtue of your vigilance and economy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI perceive what you are intending to propose to me; but I cannot
accept it, EdmondГўВҖВ”my son would not permit it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing shall be done without the full approbation of Albert de
Morcerf. I will make myself acquainted with his intentions and will
submit to them. But if he be willing to accept my offers, will you
oppose them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou well know, Edmond, that I am no longer a reasoning creature; I
have no will, unless it be the will never to decide. I have been so
overwhelmed by the many storms that have broken over my head, that I am
become passive in the hands of the Almighty, like a sparrow in the
talons of an eagle. I live, because it is not ordained for me to die.
If succor be sent to me, I will accept it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, madame,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңyou should not talk thus! It is not
so we should evince our resignation to the will of heaven; on the
contrary, we are all free agents.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, ГўВҖВңif it were so, if I possessed free-will,
but without the power to render that will efficacious, it would drive
me to despair.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo dropped his head and shrank from the vehemence of her
grief.

ГўВҖВңWill you not even say you will see me again?ГўВҖВқ he asked.

ГўВҖВңOn the contrary, we shall meet again,ГўВҖВқ said MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, pointing to
heaven with solemnity. ГўВҖВңI tell you so to prove to you that I still
hope.ГўВҖВқ

And after pressing her own trembling hand upon that of the count,
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs rushed up the stairs and disappeared. Monte Cristo slowly left
the house and turned towards the quay. But MercГғВ©dГғВЁs did not witness his
departure, although she was seated at the little window of the room
which had been occupied by old DantГғВЁs. Her eyes were straining to see
the ship which was carrying her son over the vast sea; but still her
voice involuntarily murmured softly:

ГўВҖВңEdmond, Edmond, Edmond!ГўВҖВқ



 Chapter 113. The Past

The count departed with a sad heart from the house in which he had left
MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, probably never to behold her again. Since the death of little
Edward a great change had taken place in Monte Cristo. Having reached
the summit of his vengeance by a long and tortuous path, he saw an
abyss of doubt yawning before him. More than this, the conversation
which had just taken place between MercГғВ©dГғВЁs and himself had awakened so
many recollections in his heart that he felt it necessary to combat
with them. A man of the countГўВҖВҷs temperament could not long indulge in
that melancholy which can exist in common minds, but which destroys
superior ones. He thought he must have made an error in his
calculations if he now found cause to blame himself.

ГўВҖВңI cannot have deceived myself,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңI must look upon the past in
a false light. What!ГўВҖВқ he continued, ГўВҖВңcan I have been following a false
path?ГўВҖВ”can the end which I proposed be a mistaken end?ГўВҖВ”can one hour have
sufficed to prove to an architect that the work upon which he founded
all his hopes was an impossible, if not a sacrilegious, undertaking? I
cannot reconcile myself to this ideaГўВҖВ”it would madden me. The reason why
I am now dissatisfied is that I have not a clear appreciation of the
past. The past, like the country through which we walk, becomes
indistinct as we advance. My position is like that of a person wounded
in a dream; he feels the wound, though he cannot recollect when he
received it.

ГўВҖВңCome, then, thou regenerate man, thou extravagant prodigal, thou
awakened sleeper, thou all-powerful visionary, thou invincible
millionaire,ГўВҖВ”once again review thy past life of starvation and
wretchedness, revisit the scenes where fate and misfortune conducted,
and where despair received thee. Too many diamonds, too much gold and
splendor, are now reflected by the mirror in which Monte Cristo seeks
to behold DantГғВЁs. Hide thy diamonds, bury thy gold, shroud thy
splendor, exchange riches for poverty, liberty for a prison, a living
body for a corpse!ГўВҖВқ

As he thus reasoned, Monte Cristo walked down the Rue de la Caisserie.
It was the same through which, twenty-four years ago, he had been
conducted by a silent and nocturnal guard; the houses, today so smiling
and animated, were on that night dark, mute, and closed.

ГўВҖВңAnd yet they were the same,ГўВҖВқ murmured Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңonly now it is
broad daylight instead of night; it is the sun which brightens the
place, and makes it appear so cheerful.ГўВҖВқ

He proceeded towards the quay by the Rue Saint-Laurent, and advanced to
the Consigne; it was the point where he had embarked. A pleasure-boat
with striped awning was going by. Monte Cristo called the owner, who
immediately rowed up to him with the eagerness of a boatman hoping for
a good fare.

The weather was magnificent, and the excursion a treat. The sun, red
and flaming, was sinking into the embrace of the welcoming ocean. The
sea, smooth as crystal, was now and then disturbed by the leaping of
fish, which were pursued by some unseen enemy and sought for safety in
another element; while on the extreme verge of the horizon might be
seen the fishermenГўВҖВҷs boats, white and graceful as the sea-gull, or the
merchant vessels bound for Corsica or Spain.

But notwithstanding the serene sky, the gracefully formed boats, and
the golden light in which the whole scene was bathed, the Count of
Monte Cristo, wrapped in his cloak, could think only of this terrible
voyage, the details of which were one by one recalled to his memory.
The solitary light burning at the Catalans; that first sight of the
ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, which told him whither they were leading him; the
struggle with the gendarmes when he wished to throw himself overboard;
his despair when he found himself vanquished, and the sensation when
the muzzle of the carbine touched his foreheadГўВҖВ”all these were brought
before him in vivid and frightful reality.

Like the streams which the heat of the summer has dried up, and which
after the autumnal storms gradually begin oozing drop by drop, so did
the count feel his heart gradually fill with the bitterness which
formerly nearly overwhelmed Edmond DantГғВЁs. Clear sky, swift-flitting
boats, and brilliant sunshine disappeared; the heavens were hung with
black, and the gigantic structure of the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf seemed like the
phantom of a mortal enemy. As they reached the shore, the count
instinctively shrunk to the extreme end of the boat, and the owner was
obliged to call out, in his sweetest tone of voice:

ГўВҖВңSir, we are at the landing.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo remembered that on that very spot, on the same rock, he
had been violently dragged by the guards, who forced him to ascend the
slope at the points of their bayonets. The journey had seemed very long
to DantГғВЁs, but Monte Cristo found it equally short. Each stroke of the
oar seemed to awaken a new throng of ideas, which sprang up with the
flying spray of the sea.

50219m



There had been no prisoners confined in the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf since the
revolution of July; it was only inhabited by a guard, kept there for
the prevention of smuggling. A concierge waited at the door to exhibit
to visitors this monument of curiosity, once a scene of terror.

The count inquired whether any of the ancient jailers were still there;
but they had all been pensioned, or had passed on to some other
employment. The concierge who attended him had only been there since
1830. He visited his own dungeon. He again beheld the dull light vainly
endeavoring to penetrate the narrow opening. His eyes rested upon the
spot where had stood his bed, since then removed, and behind the bed
the new stones indicated where the breach made by the AbbГғВ© Faria had
been. Monte Cristo felt his limbs tremble; he seated himself upon a log
of wood.

ГўВҖВңAre there any stories connected with this prison besides the one
relating to the poisoning of Mirabeau?ГўВҖВқ asked the count; ГўВҖВңare there any
traditions respecting these dismal abodes,ГўВҖВ”in which it is difficult to
believe men can ever have imprisoned their fellow-creatures?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir; indeed, the jailer Antoine told me one connected with this
very dungeon.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo shuddered; Antoine had been his jailer. He had almost
forgotten his name and face, but at the mention of the name he recalled
his person as he used to see it, the face encircled by a beard, wearing
the brown jacket, the bunch of keys, the jingling of which he still
seemed to hear. The count turned around, and fancied he saw him in the
corridor, rendered still darker by the torch carried by the concierge.

ГўВҖВңWould you like to hear the story, sir?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; relate it,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, pressing his hand to his heart to
still its violent beatings; he felt afraid of hearing his own history.

ГўВҖВңThis dungeon,ГўВҖВқ said the concierge, ГўВҖВңwas, it appears, some time ago
occupied by a very dangerous prisoner, the more so since he was full of
industry. Another person was confined in the ChГғВўteau at the same time,
but he was not wicked, he was only a poor mad priest.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, indeed?ГўВҖВ”mad!ГўВҖВқ repeated Monte Cristo; ГўВҖВңand what was his mania?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe offered millions to anyone who would set him at liberty.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo raised his eyes, but he could not see the heavens; there
was a stone veil between him and the firmament. He thought that there
had been no less thick a veil before the eyes of those to whom Faria
offered the treasures.

ГўВҖВңCould the prisoners see each other?ГўВҖВқ he asked.

ГўВҖВңOh, no, sir, it was expressly forbidden; but they eluded the vigilance
of the guards, and made a passage from one dungeon to the other.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd which of them made this passage?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it must have been the young man, certainly, for he was strong and
industrious, while the abbГғВ© was aged and weak; besides, his mind was
too vacillating to allow him to carry out an idea.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBlind fools!ГўВҖВқ murmured the count.

ГўВҖВңHowever, be that as it may, the young man made a tunnel, how or by
what means no one knows; but he made it, and there is the evidence yet
remaining of his work. Do you see it?ГўВҖВқ and the man held the torch to
the wall.

50223m



ГўВҖВңAh, yes; I see,ГўВҖВқ said the count, in a voice hoarse from emotion.

ГўВҖВңThe result was that the two men communicated with one another; how
long they did so, nobody knows. One day the old man fell ill and died.
Now guess what the young one did?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe carried off the corpse, which he placed in his own bed with its
face to the wall; then he entered the empty dungeon, closed the
entrance, and slipped into the sack which had contained the dead body.
Did you ever hear of such an idea?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo closed his eyes, and seemed again to experience all the
sensations he had felt when the coarse canvas, yet moist with the cold
dews of death, had touched his face.

The jailer continued:

ГўВҖВңNow this was his project. He fancied that they buried the dead at the
ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf, and imagining they would not expend much labor on the
grave of a prisoner, he calculated on raising the earth with his
shoulders, but unfortunately their arrangements at the ChГғВўteau
frustrated his projects. They never buried the dead; they merely
attached a heavy cannon-ball to the feet, and then threw them into the
sea. This is what was done. The young man was thrown from the top of
the rock; the corpse was found on the bed next day, and the whole truth
was guessed, for the men who performed the office then mentioned what
they had not dared to speak of before, that at the moment the corpse
was thrown into the deep, they heard a shriek, which was almost
immediately stifled by the water in which it disappeared.ГўВҖВқ

The count breathed with difficulty; the cold drops ran down his
forehead, and his heart was full of anguish.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ he muttered, ГўВҖВңthe doubt I felt was but the commencement of
forgetfulness; but here the wound reopens, and the heart again thirsts
for vengeance. And the prisoner,ГўВҖВқ he continued aloud, ГўВҖВңwas he ever
heard of afterwards?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no; of course not. You can understand that one of two things must
have happened; he must either have fallen flat, in which case the blow,
from a height of ninety feet, must have killed him instantly, or he
must have fallen upright, and then the weight would have dragged him to
the bottom, where he remainedГўВҖВ”poor fellow!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you pity him?ГўВҖВқ said the count.

ГўВҖВң_Ma foi_, yes; though he was in his own element.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe report was that he had been a naval officer, who had been confined
for plotting with the Bonapartists.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGreat is truth,ГўВҖВқ muttered the count, ГўВҖВңfire cannot burn, nor water
drown it! Thus the poor sailor lives in the recollection of those who
narrate his history; his terrible story is recited in the
chimney-corner, and a shudder is felt at the description of his transit
through the air to be swallowed by the deep.ГўВҖВқ Then, the count added
aloud, ГўВҖВңWas his name ever known?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes; but only as No. 34.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, Villefort, Villefort,ГўВҖВқ murmured the count, ГўВҖВңthis scene must often
have haunted thy sleepless hours!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you wish to see anything more, sir?ГўВҖВқ said the concierge.

ГўВҖВңYes, especially if you will show me the poor abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! No. 27.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; No. 27.ГўВҖВқ repeated the count, who seemed to hear the voice of the
abbГғВ© answering him in those very words through the wall when asked his
name.

ГўВҖВңCome, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWait,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңI wish to take one final glance around this
room.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis is fortunate,ГўВҖВқ said the guide; ГўВҖВңI have forgotten the other key.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo and fetch it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will leave you the torch, sir.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, take it away; I can see in the dark.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, you are like No. 34. They said he was so accustomed to darkness
that he could see a pin in the darkest corner of his dungeon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe spent fourteen years to arrive at that,ГўВҖВқ muttered the count.

The guide carried away the torch. The count had spoken correctly.
Scarcely had a few seconds elapsed, ere he saw everything as distinctly
as by daylight. Then he looked around him, and really recognized his
dungeon.

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңthere is the stone upon which I used to sit; there is
the impression made by my shoulders on the wall; there is the mark of
my blood made when one day I dashed my head against the wall. Oh, those
figures, how well I remember them! I made them one day to calculate the
age of my father, that I might know whether I should find him still
living, and that of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs, to know if I should find her still free.
After finishing that calculation, I had a minuteГўВҖВҷs hope. I did not
reckon upon hunger and infidelity!ГўВҖВқ and a bitter laugh escaped the
count.

He saw in fancy the burial of his father, and the marriage of MercГғВ©dГғВЁs.
On the other side of the dungeon he perceived an inscription, the white
letters of which were still visible on the green wall:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳ_Oh, God!_ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ he read, ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳ_preserve my memory!_ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңthat was my only prayer at last; I no longer
begged for liberty, but memory; I dreaded to become mad and forgetful.
Oh, God, thou hast preserved my memory; I thank thee, I thank thee!ГўВҖВқ

At this moment the light of the torch was reflected on the wall; the
guide was coming; Monte Cristo went to meet him.

ГўВҖВңFollow me, sir;ГўВҖВқ and without ascending the stairs the guide conducted
him by a subterraneous passage to another entrance. There, again, Monte
Cristo was assailed by a multitude of thoughts. The first thing that
met his eye was the meridian, drawn by the abbГғВ© on the wall, by which
he calculated the time; then he saw the remains of the bed on which the
poor prisoner had died. The sight of this, instead of exciting the
anguish experienced by the count in the dungeon, filled his heart with
a soft and grateful sentiment, and tears fell from his eyes.

ГўВҖВңThis is where the mad abbГғВ© was kept, sir, and that is where the young
man entered;ГўВҖВқ and the guide pointed to the opening, which had remained
unclosed. ГўВҖВңFrom the appearance of the stone,ГўВҖВқ he continued, ГўВҖВңa learned
gentleman discovered that the prisoners might have communicated
together for ten years. Poor things! Those must have been ten weary
years.ГўВҖВқ

DantГғВЁs took some louis from his pocket, and gave them to the man who
had twice unconsciously pitied him. The guide took them, thinking them
merely a few pieces of little value; but the light of the torch
revealed their true worth.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңyou have made a mistake; you have given me gold.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know it.ГўВҖВқ

The concierge looked upon the count with surprise.

ГўВҖВңSir,ГўВҖВқ he cried, scarcely able to believe his good fortuneГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңsir, I
cannot understand your generosity!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, it is very simple, my good fellow; I have been a sailor, and your
story touched me more than it would others.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen, sir, since you are so liberal, I ought to offer you something.ГўВҖВқ

50227m



ГўВҖВңWhat have you to offer to me, my friend? Shells? Straw-work? Thank
you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir, neither of those; something connected with this story.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңReally? What is it?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said the guide; ГўВҖВңI said to myself, ГўВҖВҳSomething is always left
in a cell inhabited by one prisoner for fifteen years,ГўВҖВҷ so I began to
sound the wall.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ cried Monte Cristo, remembering the abbГғВ©ГўВҖВҷs two hiding-places.

ГўВҖВңAfter some search, I found that the floor gave a hollow sound near the
head of the bed, and at the hearth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI raised the stones, and foundГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA rope-ladder and some tools?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow do you know that?ГўВҖВқ asked the guide in astonishment.

ГўВҖВңI do not knowГўВҖВ”I only guess it, because that sort of thing is generally
found in prisonersГўВҖВҷ cells.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, sir, a rope-ladder and tools.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd have you them yet?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, sir; I sold them to visitors, who considered them great
curiosities; but I have still something left.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat is it?ГўВҖВқ asked the count, impatiently.

ГўВҖВңA sort of book, written upon strips of cloth.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo and fetch it, my good fellow; and if it be what I hope, you will do
well.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI will run for it, sir;ГўВҖВқ and the guide went out.

Then the count knelt down by the side of the bed, which death had
converted into an altar.

ГўВҖВңOh, second father,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңthou who hast given me liberty,
knowledge, riches; thou who, like beings of a superior order to
ourselves, couldst understand the science of good and evil; if in the
depths of the tomb there still remain something within us which can
respond to the voice of those who are left on earth; if after death the
soul ever revisit the places where we have lived and suffered,ГўВҖВ”then,
noble heart, sublime soul, then I conjure thee by the paternal love
thou didst bear me, by the filial obedience I vowed to thee, grant me
some sign, some revelation! Remove from me the remains of doubt, which,
if it change not to conviction, must become remorse!ГўВҖВқ The count bowed
his head, and clasped his hands together.

ГўВҖВңHere, sir,ГўВҖВқ said a voice behind him.

Monte Cristo shuddered, and arose. The concierge held out the strips of
cloth upon which the AbbГғВ© Faria had spread the riches of his mind. The
manuscript was the great work by the AbbГғВ© Faria upon the kingdoms of
Italy. The count seized it hastily, his eyes immediately fell upon the
epigraph, and he read:

ГўВҖВңThou shalt tear out the dragonsГўВҖВҷ teeth, and shall trample the lions
under foot, saith the Lord.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңhere is my answer. Thanks, father, thanks.ГўВҖВқ And
feeling in his pocket, he took thence a small pocket-book, which
contained ten bank-notes, each of 1,000 francs.

ГўВҖВңHere,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңtake this pocket-book.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you give it to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; but only on condition that you will not open it till I am gone;ГўВҖВқ
and placing in his breast the treasure he had just found, which was
more valuable to him than the richest jewel, he rushed out of the
corridor, and reaching his boat, cried, ГўВҖВңTo Marseilles!ГўВҖВқ

Then, as he departed, he fixed his eyes upon the gloomy prison.

ГўВҖВңWoe,ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңto those who confined me in that wretched prison; and
woe to those who forgot that I was there!ГўВҖВқ

50229m



As he repassed the Catalans, the count turned around and burying his
head in his cloak murmured the name of a woman. The victory was
complete; twice he had overcome his doubts. The name he pronounced, in
a voice of tenderness, amounting almost to love, was that of HaydГғВ©e.

On landing, the count turned towards the cemetery, where he felt sure
of finding Morrel. He, too, ten years ago, had piously sought out a
tomb, and sought it vainly. He, who returned to France with millions,
had been unable to find the grave of his father, who had perished from
hunger. Morrel had indeed placed a cross over the spot, but it had
fallen down and the grave-digger had burnt it, as he did all the old
wood in the churchyard.

The worthy merchant had been more fortunate. Dying in the arms of his
children, he had been by them laid by the side of his wife, who had
preceded him in eternity by two years. Two large slabs of marble, on
which were inscribed their names, were placed on either side of a
little enclosure, railed in, and shaded by four cypress-trees. Morrel
was leaning against one of these, mechanically fixing his eyes on the
graves. His grief was so profound that he was nearly unconscious.

50231m



ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyou should not look on the graves, but
there;ГўВҖВқ and he pointed upwards.

ГўВҖВңThe dead are everywhere,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңdid you not yourself tell me
so as we left Paris?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMaximilian,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyou asked me during the journey to allow
you to remain some days at Marseilles. Do you still wish to do so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have no wishes, count; only I fancy I could pass the time less
painfully here than anywhere else.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo much the better, for I must leave you; but I carry your word with
me, do I not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, count, I shall forget it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, you will not forget it, because you are a man of honor, Morrel,
because you have taken an oath, and are about to do so again.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, count, have pity upon me. I am so unhappy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have known a man much more unfortunate than you, Morrel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImpossible!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlas,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңit is the infirmity of our nature always to
believe ourselves much more unhappy than those who groan by our sides!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat can be more wretched than the man who has lost all he loved and
desired in the world?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen, Morrel, and pay attention to what I am about to tell you. I
knew a man who like you had fixed all his hopes of happiness upon a
woman. He was young, he had an old father whom he loved, a betrothed
bride whom he adored. He was about to marry her, when one of the
caprices of fate,ГўВҖВ”which would almost make us doubt the goodness of
Providence, if that Providence did not afterwards reveal itself by
proving that all is but a means of conducting to an end,ГўВҖВ”one of those
caprices deprived him of his mistress, of the future of which he had
dreamed (for in his blindness he forgot he could only read the
present), and cast him into a dungeon.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңone quits a dungeon in a week, a month, or a year.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe remained there fourteen years, Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said the count, placing his
hand on the young manГўВҖВҷs shoulder. Maximilian shuddered.

ГўВҖВңFourteen years!ГўВҖВқ he muttered.

ГўВҖВңFourteen years!ГўВҖВқ repeated the count. ГўВҖВңDuring that time he had many
moments of despair. He also, Morrel, like you, considered himself the
unhappiest of men.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңWell, at the height of his despair God assisted him through human
means. At first, perhaps, he did not recognize the infinite mercy of
the Lord, but at last he took patience and waited. One day he
miraculously left the prison, transformed, rich, powerful. His first
cry was for his father; but that father was dead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy father, too, is dead,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel.

ГўВҖВңYes; but your father died in your arms, happy, respected, rich, and
full of years; his father died poor, despairing, almost doubtful of
Providence; and when his son sought his grave ten years afterwards, his
tomb had disappeared, and no one could say, ГўВҖВҳThere sleeps the father
you so well loved.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel.

ГўВҖВңHe was, then, a more unhappy son than you, Morrel, for he could not
even find his fatherГўВҖВҷs grave.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut then he had the woman he loved still remaining?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are deceived, Morrel, that womanГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңShe was dead?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWorse than that, she was faithless, and had married one of the
persecutors of her betrothed. You see, then, Morrel, that he was a more
unhappy lover than you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd has he found consolation?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe has at least found peace.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd does he ever expect to be happy?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHe hopes so, Maximilian.ГўВҖВқ

The young manГўВҖВҷs head fell on his breast.

ГўВҖВңYou have my promise,ГўВҖВқ he said, after a minuteГўВҖВҷs pause, extending his
hand to Monte Cristo. ГўВҖВңOnly rememberГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the 5th of October, Morrel, I shall expect you at the Island of
Monte Cristo. On the 4th a yacht will wait for you in the port of
Bastia, it will be called the _Eurus_. You will give your name to the
captain, who will bring you to me. It is understoodГўВҖВ”is it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut, count, do you remember that the 5th of OctoberГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңChild,ГўВҖВқ replied the count, ГўВҖВңnot to know the value of a manГўВҖВҷs word! I
have told you twenty times that if you wish to die on that day, I will
assist you. Morrel, farewell!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you leave me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I have business in Italy. I leave you alone in your struggle with
misfortuneГўВҖВ”alone with that strong-winged eagle which God sends to bear
aloft the elect to his feet. The story of Ganymede, Maximilian, is not
a fable, but an allegory.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen do you leave?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңImmediately; the steamer waits, and in an hour I shall be far from
you. Will you accompany me to the harbor, Maximilian?ГўВҖВқ

50233m



ГўВҖВңI am entirely yours, count.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel accompanied the count to the harbor. The white steam was
ascending like a plume of feathers from the black chimney. The steamer
soon disappeared, and in an hour afterwards, as the count had said, was
scarcely distinguishable in the horizon amidst the fogs of the night.



 Chapter 114. Peppino

At the same time that the steamer disappeared behind Cape Morgiou, a
man travelling post on the road from Florence to Rome had just passed
the little town of Aquapendente. He was travelling fast enough to cover
a great deal of ground without exciting suspicion. This man was dressed
in a greatcoat, or rather a surtout, a little worse for the journey,
but which exhibited the ribbon of the Legion of Honor still fresh and
brilliant, a decoration which also ornamented the under coat. He might
be recognized, not only by these signs, but also from the accent with
which he spoke to the postilion, as a Frenchman.

Another proof that he was a native of the universal country was
apparent in the fact of his knowing no other Italian words than the
terms used in music, and which like the ГўВҖВңgoddamГўВҖВқ of Figaro, served all
possible linguistic requirements. ГўВҖВң_Allegro!_ГўВҖВқ he called out to the
postilions at every ascent. ГўВҖВң_Moderato!_ГўВҖВқ he cried as they descended.
And heaven knows there are hills enough between Rome and Florence by
the way of Aquapendente! These two words greatly amused the men to whom
they were addressed. On reaching La Storta, the point from whence Rome
is first visible, the traveller evinced none of the enthusiastic
curiosity which usually leads strangers to stand up and endeavor to
catch sight of the dome of Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs, which may be seen long before
any other object is distinguishable. No, he merely drew a pocketbook
from his pocket, and took from it a paper folded in four, and after
having examined it in a manner almost reverential, he said:

ГўВҖВңGood! I have it still!ГўВҖВқ

50235m



The carriage entered by the Porta del Popolo, turned to the left, and
stopped at the HГғВҙtel dГўВҖВҷEspagne. Old Pastrini, our former acquaintance,
received the traveller at the door, hat in hand. The traveller
alighted, ordered a good dinner, and inquired the address of the house
of Thomson & French, which was immediately given to him, as it was one
of the most celebrated in Rome. It was situated in the Via dei Banchi,
near St. PeterГўВҖВҷs.

In Rome, as everywhere else, the arrival of a post-chaise is an event.
Ten young descendants of Marius and the Gracchi, barefooted and out at
elbows, with one hand resting on the hip and the other gracefully
curved above the head, stared at the traveller, the post-chaise, and
the horses; to these were added about fifty little vagabonds from the
Papal States, who earned a pittance by diving into the Tiber at high
water from the bridge of St. Angelo. Now, as these street Arabs of
Rome, more fortunate than those of Paris, understand every language,
more especially the French, they heard the traveller order an
apartment, a dinner, and finally inquire the way to the house of
Thomson & French.

The result was that when the new-comer left the hotel with the
_cicerone_, a man detached himself from the rest of the idlers, and
without having been seen by the traveller, and appearing to excite no
attention from the guide, followed the stranger with as much skill as a
Parisian police agent would have used.

The Frenchman had been so impatient to reach the house of Thomson &
French that he would not wait for the horses to be harnessed, but left
word for the carriage to overtake him on the road, or to wait for him
at the bankersГўВҖВҷ door. He reached it before the carriage arrived. The
Frenchman entered, leaving in the anteroom his guide, who immediately
entered into conversation with two or three of the industrious idlers
who are always to be found in Rome at the doors of banking-houses,
churches, museums, or theatres. With the Frenchman, the man who had
followed him entered too; the Frenchman knocked at the inner door, and
entered the first room; his shadow did the same.

ГўВҖВңMessrs. Thomson & French?ГўВҖВқ inquired the stranger.

An attendant arose at a sign from a confidential clerk at the first
desk.

ГўВҖВңWhom shall I announce?ГўВҖВқ said the attendant.

ГўВҖВңBaron Danglars.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFollow me,ГўВҖВқ said the man.

A door opened, through which the attendant and the baron disappeared.
The man who had followed Danglars sat down on a bench. The clerk
continued to write for the next five minutes; the man preserved
profound silence, and remained perfectly motionless. Then the pen of
the clerk ceased to move over the paper; he raised his head, and
appearing to be perfectly sure of privacy:

ГўВҖВңAh, ha,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңhere you are, Peppino!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ was the laconic reply. ГўВҖВңYou have found out that there is
something worth having about this large gentleman?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is no great merit due to me, for we were informed of it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou know his business here, then.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Pardieu_, he has come to draw, but I donГўВҖВҷt know how much!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou will know presently, my friend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, only do not give me false information as you did the other
day.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВ”of whom do you speak? Was it the Englishman who
carried off 3,000 crowns from here the other day?ГўВҖВқ

50237m



ГўВҖВңNo; he really had 3,000 crowns, and we found them. I mean the Russian
prince, who you said had 30,000 livres, and we only found 22,000.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou must have searched badly.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLuigi Vampa himself searched.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn that case he must either have paid his debtsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA Russian do that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOr spent the money?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPossibly, after all.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly. But you must let me make my observations, or the Frenchman
will transact his business without my knowing the sum.ГўВҖВқ

Peppino nodded, and taking a rosary from his pocket began to mutter a
few prayers while the clerk disappeared through the same door by which
Danglars and the attendant had gone out. At the expiration of ten
minutes the clerk returned with a beaming countenance.

ГўВҖВңWell?ГўВҖВқ asked Peppino of his friend.

ГўВҖВңJoy, joyГўВҖВ”the sum is large!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFive or six millions, is it not?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you know the amount.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOn the receipt of the Count of Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy, how came you to be so well acquainted with all this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI told you we were informed beforehand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen why do you apply to me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat I may be sure I have the right man.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, it is indeed he. Five millionsГўВҖВ”a pretty sum, eh, Peppino?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHushГўВҖВ”here is our man!ГўВҖВқ The clerk seized his pen, and Peppino his
beads; one was writing and the other praying when the door opened.
Danglars looked radiant with joy; the banker accompanied him to the
door. Peppino followed Danglars.

According to the arrangements, the carriage was waiting at the door.
The guide held the door open. Guides are useful people, who will turn
their hands to anything. Danglars leaped into the carriage like a young
man of twenty. The _cicerone_ reclosed the door, and sprang up by the
side of the coachman. Peppino mounted the seat behind.

ГўВҖВңWill your excellency visit Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs?ГўВҖВқ asked the _cicerone_.

ГўВҖВңI did not come to Rome to see,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars aloud; then he added
softly, with an avaricious smile, ГўВҖВңI came to touch!ГўВҖВқ and he rapped his
pocket-book, in which he had just placed a letter.

ГўВҖВңThen your excellency is goingГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo the hotel.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCasa Pastrini!ГўВҖВқ said the _cicerone_ to the coachman, and the carriage
drove rapidly on.

50239m



Ten minutes afterwards the baron entered his apartment, and Peppino
stationed himself on the bench outside the door of the hotel, after
having whispered something in the ear of one of the descendants of
Marius and the Gracchi whom we noticed at the beginning of the chapter,
who immediately ran down the road leading to the Capitol at his fullest
speed. Danglars was tired and sleepy; he therefore went to bed, placing
his pocketbook under his pillow. Peppino had a little spare time, so he
had a game of _morra_ with the facchini, lost three crowns, and then to
console himself drank a bottle of Orvieto.

The next morning Danglars awoke late, though he went to bed so early;
he had not slept well for five or six nights, even if he had slept at
all. He breakfasted heartily, and caring little, as he said, for the
beauties of the Eternal City, ordered post-horses at noon. But Danglars
had not reckoned upon the formalities of the police and the idleness of
the posting-master. The horses only arrived at two oГўВҖВҷclock, and the
_cicerone_ did not bring the passport till three.

All these preparations had collected a number of idlers round the door
of Signor PastriniГўВҖВҷs; the descendants of Marius and the Gracchi were
also not wanting. The baron walked triumphantly through the crowd, who
for the sake of gain styled him ГўВҖВңyour excellency.ГўВҖВқ As Danglars had
hitherto contented himself with being called a baron, he felt rather
flattered at the title of excellency, and distributed a dozen silver
coins among the beggars, who were ready, for twelve more, to call him
ГўВҖВңyour highness.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhich road?ГўВҖВқ asked the postilion in Italian.

ГўВҖВңThe Ancona road,ГўВҖВқ replied the baron. Signor Pastrini interpreted the
question and answer, and the horses galloped off.

Danglars intended travelling to Venice, where he would receive one part
of his fortune, and then proceeding to Vienna, where he would find the
rest, he meant to take up his residence in the latter town, which he
had been told was a city of pleasure.

He had scarcely advanced three leagues out of Rome when daylight began
to disappear. Danglars had not intended starting so late, or he would
have remained; he put his head out and asked the postilion how long it
would be before they reached the next town. ГўВҖВң_Non capisco_ГўВҖВқ (do not
understand), was the reply. Danglars bent his head, which he meant to
imply, ГўВҖВңVery well.ГўВҖВқ The carriage again moved on.

ГўВҖВңI will stop at the first posting-house,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars to himself.

He still felt the same self-satisfaction which he had experienced the
previous evening, and which had procured him so good a nightГўВҖВҷs rest. He
was luxuriously stretched in a good English calash, with double
springs; he was drawn by four good horses, at full gallop; he knew the
relay to be at a distance of seven leagues. What subject of meditation
could present itself to the banker, so fortunately become bankrupt?

Danglars thought for ten minutes about his wife in Paris; another ten
minutes about his daughter travelling with Mademoiselle dГўВҖВҷArmilly; the
same period was given to his creditors, and the manner in which he
intended spending their money; and then, having no subject left for
contemplation, he shut his eyes, and fell asleep. Now and then a jolt
more violent than the rest caused him to open his eyes; then he felt
that he was still being carried with great rapidity over the same
country, thickly strewn with broken aqueducts, which looked like
granite giants petrified while running a race. But the night was cold,
dull, and rainy, and it was much more pleasant for a traveller to
remain in the warm carriage than to put his head out of the window to
make inquiries of a postilion whose only answer was ГўВҖВң_Non capisco_.ГўВҖВқ

50241m



Danglars therefore continued to sleep, saying to himself that he would
be sure to awake at the posting-house. The carriage stopped. Danglars
fancied that they had reached the long-desired point; he opened his
eyes and looked through the window, expecting to find himself in the
midst of some town, or at least village; but he saw nothing except what
seemed like a ruin, where three or four men went and came like shadows.

Danglars waited a moment, expecting the postilion to come and demand
payment with the termination of his stage. He intended taking advantage
of the opportunity to make fresh inquiries of the new conductor; but
the horses were unharnessed, and others put in their places, without
anyone claiming money from the traveller. Danglars, astonished, opened
the door; but a strong hand pushed him back, and the carriage rolled
on. The baron was completely roused.

ГўВҖВңEh?ГўВҖВқ he said to the postilion, ГўВҖВңeh, _mio caro?_ГўВҖВқ

This was another little piece of Italian the baron had learned from
hearing his daughter sing Italian duets with Cavalcanti. But _mio caro_
did not reply. Danglars then opened the window.

ГўВҖВңCome, my friend,ГўВҖВқ he said, thrusting his hand through the opening,
ГўВҖВңwhere are we going?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВң_Dentro la testa!_ГўВҖВқ answered a solemn and imperious voice, accompanied
by a menacing gesture.

Danglars thought _dentro la testa_ meant, ГўВҖВңPut in your head!ГўВҖВқ He was
making rapid progress in Italian. He obeyed, not without some
uneasiness, which, momentarily increasing, caused his mind, instead of
being as unoccupied as it was when he began his journey, to fill with
ideas which were very likely to keep a traveller awake, more especially
one in such a situation as Danglars. His eyes acquired that quality
which in the first moment of strong emotion enables them to see
distinctly, and which afterwards fails from being too much taxed.
Before we are alarmed, we see correctly; when we are alarmed, we see
double; and when we have been alarmed, we see nothing but trouble.
Danglars observed a man in a cloak galloping at the right hand of the
carriage.

ГўВҖВңSome gendarme!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed. ГўВҖВңCan I have been intercepted by French
telegrams to the pontifical authorities?ГўВҖВқ

He resolved to end his anxiety. ГўВҖВңWhere are you taking me?ГўВҖВқ he asked.

ГўВҖВң_Dentro la testa_,ГўВҖВқ replied the same voice, with the same menacing
accent.

Danglars turned to the left; another man on horseback was galloping on
that side.

ГўВҖВңDecidedly,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, with the perspiration on his forehead, ГўВҖВңI
must be under arrest.ГўВҖВқ And he threw himself back in the calash, not
this time to sleep, but to think.

Directly afterwards the moon rose. He then saw the great aqueducts,
those stone phantoms which he had before remarked, only then they were
on the right hand, now they were on the left. He understood that they
had described a circle, and were bringing him back to Rome.

ГўВҖВңOh, unfortunate!ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңthey must have obtained my arrest.ГўВҖВқ

The carriage continued to roll on with frightful speed. An hour of
terror elapsed, for every spot they passed showed that they were on the
road back. At length he saw a dark mass, against which it seemed as if
the carriage was about to dash; but the vehicle turned to one side,
leaving the barrier behind and Danglars saw that it was one of the
ramparts encircling Rome.

50243m



ГўВҖВң_Mon dieu!_ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars, ГўВҖВңwe are not returning to Rome; then it is
not justice which is pursuing me! Gracious heavens; another idea
presents itselfГўВҖВ”what if they should beГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

His hair stood on end. He remembered those interesting stories, so
little believed in Paris, respecting Roman bandits; he remembered the
adventures that Albert de Morcerf had related when it was intended that
he should marry Mademoiselle EugГғВ©nie. ГўВҖВңThey are robbers, perhaps,ГўВҖВқ he
muttered.

Just then the carriage rolled on something harder than gravel road.
Danglars hazarded a look on both sides of the road, and perceived
monuments of a singular form, and his mind now recalled all the details
Morcerf had related, and comparing them with his own situation, he felt
sure that he must be on the Appian Way. On the left, in a sort of
valley, he perceived a circular excavation. It was CaracallaГўВҖВҷs circus.
On a word from the man who rode at the side of the carriage, it
stopped. At the same time the door was opened. ГўВҖВң_Scendi!_ГўВҖВқ exclaimed a
commanding voice.

Danglars instantly descended; although he did not yet speak Italian, he
understood it very well. More dead than alive, he looked around him.
Four men surrounded him, besides the postilion.

ГўВҖВң_Di quГғВ _,ГўВҖВқ said one of the men, descending a little path leading out
of the Appian Way. Danglars followed his guide without opposition, and
had no occasion to turn around to see whether the three others were
following him. Still it appeared as though they were stationed at equal
distances from one another, like sentinels. After walking for about ten
minutes, during which Danglars did not exchange a single word with his
guide, he found himself between a hillock and a clump of high weeds;
three men, standing silent, formed a triangle, of which he was the
centre. He wished to speak, but his tongue refused to move.

ГўВҖВң_Avanti!_ГўВҖВқ said the same sharp and imperative voice.

This time Danglars had double reason to understand, for if the word and
gesture had not explained the speakerГўВҖВҷs meaning, it was clearly
expressed by the man walking behind him, who pushed him so rudely that
he struck against the guide. This guide was our friend Peppino, who
dashed into the thicket of high weeds, through a path which none but
lizards or polecats could have imagined to be an open road.

Peppino stopped before a rock overhung by thick hedges; the rock, half
open, afforded a passage to the young man, who disappeared like the
evil spirits in the fairy tales. The voice and gesture of the man who
followed Danglars ordered him to do the same. There was no longer any
doubt, the bankrupt was in the hands of Roman banditti. Danglars
acquitted himself like a man placed between two dangerous positions,
and who is rendered brave by fear. Notwithstanding his large stomach,
certainly not intended to penetrate the fissures of the Campagna, he
slid down like Peppino, and closing his eyes fell upon his feet. As he
touched the ground, he opened his eyes.

50245m



The path was wide, but dark. Peppino, who cared little for being
recognized now that he was in his own territories, struck a light and
lit a torch. Two other men descended after Danglars forming the
rearguard, and pushing Danglars whenever he happened to stop, they came
by a gentle declivity to the intersection of two corridors. The walls
were hollowed out in sepulchres, one above the other, and which seemed
in contrast with the white stones to open their large dark eyes, like
those which we see on the faces of the dead. A sentinel struck the
rings of his carbine against his left hand.

ГўВҖВңWho comes there?ГўВҖВқ he cried.

ГўВҖВңA friend, a friend!ГўВҖВқ said Peppino; ГўВҖВңbut where is the captain?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere,ГўВҖВқ said the sentinel, pointing over his shoulder to a spacious
crypt, hollowed out of the rock, the lights from which shone into the
passage through the large arched openings.

ГўВҖВңFine spoil, captain, fine spoil!ГўВҖВқ said Peppino in Italian, and taking
Danglars by the collar of his coat he dragged him to an opening
resembling a door, through which they entered the apartment which the
captain appeared to have made his dwelling-place.

ГўВҖВңIs this the man?ГўВҖВқ asked the captain, who was attentively reading
PlutarchГўВҖВҷs _Life of Alexander_.

ГўВҖВңHimself, captainГўВҖВ”himself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңVery well, show him to me.ГўВҖВқ

At this rather impertinent order, Peppino raised his torch to the face
of Danglars, who hastily withdrew that he might not have his eyelashes
burnt. His agitated features presented the appearance of pale and
hideous terror.

ГўВҖВңThe man is tired,ГўВҖВқ said the captain, ГўВҖВңconduct him to his bed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ murmured Danglars, ГўВҖВңthat bed is probably one of the coffins
hollowed in the wall, and the sleep I shall enjoy will be death from
one of the poniards I see glistening in the darkness.ГўВҖВқ

From their beds of dried leaves or wolf-skins at the back of the
chamber now arose the companions of the man who had been found by
Albert de Morcerf reading _CГғВҰsarГўВҖВҷs Commentaries_, and by Danglars
studying the _Life of Alexander_. The banker uttered a groan and
followed his guide; he neither supplicated nor exclaimed. He no longer
possessed strength, will, power, or feeling; he followed where they led
him. At length he found himself at the foot of a staircase, and he
mechanically lifted his foot five or six times. Then a low door was
opened before him, and bending his head to avoid striking his forehead
he entered a small room cut out of the rock. The cell was clean, though
empty, and dry, though situated at an immeasurable distance under the
earth. A bed of dried grass covered with goat-skins was placed in one
corner. Danglars brightened up on beholding it, fancying that it gave
some promise of safety.

ГўВҖВңOh, God be praised,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңit is a real bed!ГўВҖВқ

This was the second time within the hour that he had invoked the name
of God. He had not done so for ten years before.

ГўВҖВң_Ecco!_ГўВҖВқ said the guide, and pushing Danglars into the cell, he closed
the door upon him.

A bolt grated and Danglars was a prisoner. If there had been no bolt,
it would have been impossible for him to pass through the midst of the
garrison who held the catacombs of St. Sebastian, encamped round a
master whom our readers must have recognized as the famous Luigi Vampa.

Danglars, too, had recognized the bandit, whose existence he would not
believe when Albert de Morcerf mentioned him in Paris; and not only did
he recognize him, but the cell in which Albert had been confined, and
which was probably kept for the accommodation of strangers. These
recollections were dwelt upon with some pleasure by Danglars, and
restored him to some degree of tranquillity. Since the bandits had not
despatched him at once, he felt that they would not kill him at all.
They had arrested him for the purpose of robbery, and as he had only a
few louis about him, he doubted not he would be ransomed.

He remembered that Morcerf had been taxed at 4,000 crowns, and as he
considered himself of much greater importance than Morcerf he fixed his
own price at 8,000 crowns. Eight thousand crowns amounted to 48,000
livres; he would then have about 5,050,000 francs left. With this sum
he could manage to keep out of difficulties. Therefore, tolerably
secure in being able to extricate himself from his position, provided
he were not rated at the unreasonable sum of 5,050,000 francs, he
stretched himself on his bed, and after turning over two or three
times, fell asleep with the tranquillity of the hero whose life Luigi
Vampa was studying.



 Chapter 115. Luigi VampaГўВҖВҷs Bill of Fare

We awake from every sleep except the one dreaded by Danglars. He awoke.
To a Parisian accustomed to silken curtains, walls hung with velvet
drapery, and the soft perfume of burning wood, the white smoke of which
diffuses itself in graceful curves around the room, the appearance of
the whitewashed cell which greeted his eyes on awakening seemed like
the continuation of some disagreeable dream. But in such a situation a
single moment suffices to change the strongest doubt into certainty.

ГўВҖВңYes, yes,ГўВҖВқ he murmured, ГўВҖВңI am in the hands of the brigands of whom
Albert de Morcerf spoke.ГўВҖВқ His first idea was to breathe, that he might
know whether he was wounded. He borrowed this from _Don Quixote_, the
only book he had ever read, but which he still slightly remembered.

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңthey have not wounded, but perhaps they have robbed
me!ГўВҖВқ and he thrust his hands into his pockets. They were untouched; the
hundred louis he had reserved for his journey from Rome to Venice were
in his trousers pocket, and in that of his greatcoat he found the
little note-case containing his letter of credit for 5,050,000 francs.

ГўВҖВңSingular bandits!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimed; ГўВҖВңthey have left me my purse and
pocket-book. As I was saying last night, they intend me to be ransomed.
Hello, here is my watch! Let me see what time it is.ГўВҖВқ

DanglarsГўВҖВҷ watch, one of BreguetГўВҖВҷs repeaters, which he had carefully
wound up on the previous night, struck half past five. Without this,
Danglars would have been quite ignorant of the time, for daylight did
not reach his cell. Should he demand an explanation from the bandits,
or should he wait patiently for them to propose it? The last
alternative seemed the most prudent, so he waited until twelve oГўВҖВҷclock.
During all this time a sentinel, who had been relieved at eight
oГўВҖВҷclock, had been watching his door.

50249m



Danglars suddenly felt a strong inclination to see the person who kept
watch over him. He had noticed that a few rays, not of daylight, but
from a lamp, penetrated through the ill-joined planks of the door; he
approached just as the brigand was refreshing himself with a mouthful
of brandy, which, owing to the leathern bottle containing it, sent
forth an odor which was extremely unpleasant to Danglars. ГўВҖВңFaugh!ГўВҖВқ he
exclaimed, retreating to the farther corner of his cell.

At twelve this man was replaced by another functionary, and Danglars,
wishing to catch sight of his new guardian, approached the door again.

He was an athletic, gigantic bandit, with large eyes, thick lips, and a
flat nose; his red hair fell in dishevelled masses like snakes around
his shoulders.

ГўВҖВңAh, ha,ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars, ГўВҖВңthis fellow is more like an ogre than
anything else; however, I am rather too old and tough to be very good
eating!ГўВҖВқ

We see that Danglars was collected enough to jest; at the same time, as
though to disprove the ogreish propensities, the man took some black
bread, cheese, and onions from his wallet, which he began devouring
voraciously.

ГўВҖВңMay I be hanged,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, glancing at the banditГўВҖВҷs dinner
through the crevices of the door,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңmay I be hanged if I can understand
how people can eat such filth!ГўВҖВқ and he withdrew to seat himself upon
his goat-skin, which reminded him of the smell of the brandy.

But the mysteries of nature are incomprehensible, and there are certain
invitations contained in even the coarsest food which appeal very
irresistibly to a fasting stomach. Danglars felt his own not to be very
well supplied just then, and gradually the man appeared less ugly, the
bread less black, and the cheese more fresh, while those dreadful
vulgar onions recalled to his mind certain sauces and side-dishes,
which his cook prepared in a very superior manner whenever he said,
ГўВҖВңMonsieur Deniseau, let me have a nice little fricassee today.ГўВҖВқ He got
up and knocked on the door; the bandit raised his head. Danglars knew
that he was heard, so he redoubled his blows.

ГўВҖВң_Che cosa?_ГўВҖВқ asked the bandit.

ГўВҖВңCome, come,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, tapping his fingers against the door, ГўВҖВңI
think it is quite time to think of giving me something to eat!ГўВҖВқ

But whether he did not understand him, or whether he had received no
orders respecting the nourishment of Danglars, the giant, without
answering, went on with his dinner. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ feelings were hurt, and
not wishing to put himself under obligations to the brute, the banker
threw himself down again on his goat-skin and did not breathe another
word.

Four hours passed by and the giant was replaced by another bandit.
Danglars, who really began to experience sundry gnawings at the
stomach, arose softly, again applied his eye to the crack of the door,
and recognized the intelligent countenance of his guide. It was,
indeed, Peppino who was preparing to mount guard as comfortably as
possible by seating himself opposite to the door, and placing between
his legs an earthen pan, containing chick-peas stewed with bacon. Near
the pan he also placed a pretty little basket of Villetri grapes and a
flask of Orvieto. Peppino was decidedly an epicure. Danglars watched
these preparations and his mouth watered.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ he said to himself, ГўВҖВңlet me try if he will be more tractable
than the other;ГўВҖВқ and he tapped gently at the door.

ГўВҖВң_On y va_,ГўВҖВқ (coming) exclaimed Peppino, who from frequenting the house
of Signor Pastrini understood French perfectly in all its idioms.

Danglars immediately recognized him as the man who had called out in
such a furious manner, ГўВҖВңPut in your head!ГўВҖВқ But this was not the time
for recrimination, so he assumed his most agreeable manner and said
with a gracious smile:

ГўВҖВңExcuse me, sir, but are they not going to give me any dinner?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDoes your excellency happen to be hungry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHappen to be hungry,ГўВҖВ”thatГўВҖВҷs pretty good, when I havenГўВҖВҷt eaten for
twenty-four hours!ГўВҖВқ muttered Danglars. Then he added aloud, ГўВҖВңYes, sir,
I am hungryГўВҖВ”very hungry.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd your excellency wants something to eat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt once, if possibleГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNothing easier,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino. ГўВҖВңHere you can get anything you want; by
paying for it, of course, as among honest folk.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf course!ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars. ГўВҖВңAlthough, in justice, the people who
arrest and imprison you, ought, at least, to feed you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat is not the custom, excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino.

ГўВҖВңA bad reason,ГўВҖВқ replied Danglars, who reckoned on conciliating his
keeper; ГўВҖВңbut I am content. Let me have some dinner!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAt once! What would your excellency like?ГўВҖВқ

And Peppino placed his pan on the ground, so that the steam rose
directly under the nostrils of Danglars. ГўВҖВңGive your orders.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHave you kitchens here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңKitchens?ГўВҖВ”of courseГўВҖВ”complete ones.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd cooks?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңExcellent!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, a fowl, fish, game,ГўВҖВ”it signifies little, so that I eat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs your excellency pleases. You mentioned a fowl, I think?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, a fowl.ГўВҖВқ

Peppino, turning around, shouted, ГўВҖВңA fowl for his excellency!ГўВҖВқ His
voice yet echoed in the archway when a handsome, graceful, and
half-naked young man appeared, bearing a fowl in a silver dish on his
head, without the assistance of his hands.

ГўВҖВңI could almost believe myself at the CafГғВ© de Paris,ГўВҖВқ murmured
Danglars.

ГўВҖВңHere, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino, taking the fowl from the young
bandit and placing it on the worm-eaten table, which with the stool and
the goat-skin bed formed the entire furniture of the cell. Danglars
asked for a knife and fork.

ГўВҖВңHere, excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino, offering him a little blunt knife and
a boxwood fork. Danglars took the knife in one hand and the fork in the
other, and was about to cut up the fowl.

ГўВҖВңPardon me, excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino, placing his hand on the bankerГўВҖВҷs
shoulder; ГўВҖВңpeople pay here before they eat. They might not be
satisfied, andГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, ha,ГўВҖВқ thought Danglars, ГўВҖВңthis is not so much like Paris, except
that I shall probably be skinned! Never mind, IГўВҖВҷll fix that all right.
I have always heard how cheap poultry is in Italy; I should think a
fowl is worth about twelve sous at Rome.ГўВҖВ”There,ГўВҖВқ he said, throwing a
louis down.

Peppino picked up the louis, and Danglars again prepared to carve the
fowl.

ГўВҖВңStay a moment, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino, rising; ГўВҖВңyou still owe
me something.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI said they would skin me,ГўВҖВқ thought Danglars; but resolving to resist
the extortion, he said, ГўВҖВңCome, how much do I owe you for this fowl?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency has given me a louis on account.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA louis on account for a fowl?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly; and your excellency now owes me 4,999 louis.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars opened his enormous eyes on hearing this gigantic joke.

ГўВҖВңVery droll,ГўВҖВқ he muttered, ГўВҖВңvery droll indeed,ГўВҖВқ and he again began to
carve the fowl, when Peppino stopped the baronГўВҖВҷs right hand with his
left, and held out his other hand.

ГўВҖВңCome, now,ГўВҖВқ he said.

ГўВҖВңIs it not a joke?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars.

ГўВҖВңWe never joke,ГўВҖВқ replied Peppino, solemn as a Quaker.

ГўВҖВңWhat! A hundred thousand francs for a fowl!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, excellency, you cannot imagine how hard it is to rear fowls in
these horrible caves!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come, this is very drollГўВҖВ”very amusingГўВҖВ”I allow; but, as I am very
hungry, pray allow me to eat. Stay, here is another louis for you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen that will make only 4,998 louis more,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino with the same
indifference. ГўВҖВңI shall get them all in time.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, as for that,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, angry at this prolongation of the
jest,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңas for that you wonГўВҖВҷt get them at all. Go to the devil! You do
not know with whom you have to deal!ГўВҖВқ

50253m



Peppino made a sign, and the youth hastily removed the fowl. Danglars
threw himself upon his goat-skin, and Peppino, reclosing the door,
again began eating his peas and bacon. Though Danglars could not see
Peppino, the noise of his teeth allowed no doubt as to his occupation.
He was certainly eating, and noisily too, like an ill-bred man.
ГўВҖВңBrute!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars. Peppino pretended not to hear him, and without
even turning his head continued to eat slowly. DanglarsГўВҖВҷ stomach felt
so empty, that it seemed as if it would be impossible ever to fill it
again; still he had patience for another half-hour, which appeared to
him like a century. He again arose and went to the door.

ГўВҖВңCome, sir, do not keep me starving here any longer, but tell me what
they want.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNay, your excellency, it is you who should tell us what you want. Give
your orders, and we will execute them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen open the door directly.ГўВҖВқ Peppino obeyed. ГўВҖВңNow look here, I want
something to eat! To eatГўВҖВ”do you hear?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAre you hungry?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, you understand me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat would your excellency like to eat?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңA piece of dry bread, since the fowls are beyond all price in this
accursed place.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBread? Very well. Holloa, there, some bread!ГўВҖВқ he called. The youth
brought a small loaf. ГўВҖВңHow much?ГўВҖВқ asked Danglars.

ГўВҖВңFour thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight louis,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino; ГўВҖВңYou
have paid two louis in advance.ГўВҖВқ

50255m



ГўВҖВңWhat? One hundred thousand francs for a loaf?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne hundred thousand francs,ГўВҖВқ repeated Peppino.

ГўВҖВңBut you only asked 100,000 francs for a fowl!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe have a fixed price for all our provisions. It signifies nothing
whether you eat much or littleГўВҖВ”whether you have ten dishes or oneГўВҖВ”it is
always the same price.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat, still keeping up this silly jest? My dear fellow, it is
perfectly ridiculousГўВҖВ”stupid! You had better tell me at once that you
intend starving me to death.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, dear, no, your excellency, unless you intend to commit suicide.
Pay and eat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what am I to pay with, brute?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, enraged. ГўВҖВңDo you
suppose I carry 100,000 francs in my pocket?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency has 5,050,000 francs in your pocket; that will be
fifty fowls at 100,000 francs apiece, and half a fowl for the 50,000.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars shuddered. The bandage fell from his eyes, and he understood
the joke, which he did not think quite so stupid as he had done just
before.

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңif I pay you the 100,000 francs, will you be
satisfied, and allow me to eat at my ease?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino.

ГўВҖВңBut how can I pay them?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, nothing easier; you have an account open with Messrs. Thomson &
French, Via dei Banchi, Rome; give me a draft for 4,998 louis on these
gentlemen, and our banker shall take it.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars thought it as well to comply with a good grace, so he took the
pen, ink, and paper Peppino offered him, wrote the draft, and signed
it.

ГўВҖВңHere,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңhere is a draft at sight.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd here is your fowl.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars sighed while he carved the fowl; it appeared very thin for the
price it had cost. As for Peppino, he examined the paper attentively,
put it into his pocket, and continued eating his peas.



 Chapter 116. The Pardon

The next day Danglars was again hungry; certainly the air of that
dungeon was very provocative of appetite. The prisoner expected that he
would be at no expense that day, for like an economical man he had
concealed half of his fowl and a piece of the bread in the corner of
his cell. But he had no sooner eaten than he felt thirsty; he had
forgotten that. He struggled against his thirst till his tongue clave
to the roof of his mouth; then, no longer able to resist, he called
out. The sentinel opened the door; it was a new face. He thought it
would be better to transact business with his old acquaintance, so he
sent for Peppino.

ГўВҖВңHere I am, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ said Peppino, with an eagerness which
Danglars thought favorable to him. ГўВҖВңWhat do you want?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSomething to drink.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYour excellency knows that wine is beyond all price near Rome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen give me water,ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars, endeavoring to parry the blow.

ГўВҖВңOh, water is even more scarce than wine, your excellency,ГўВҖВ”there has
been such a drought.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ thought Danglars, ГўВҖВңit is the same old story.ГўВҖВқ And while he
smiled as he attempted to regard the affair as a joke, he felt his
temples get moist with perspiration.

ГўВҖВңCome, my friend,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, seeing that he made no impression on
Peppino, ГўВҖВңyou will not refuse me a glass of wine?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI have already told you that we do not sell at retail.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, let me have a bottle of the least expensive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThey are all the same price.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd what is that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwenty-five thousand francs a bottle.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTell me,ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars, in a tone whose bitterness Harpagon30 alone
has been capable of revealingГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңtell me that you wish to despoil me of
all; it will be sooner over than devouring me piecemeal.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is possible such may be the masterГўВҖВҷs intention.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe master?ГўВҖВ”who is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe person to whom you were conducted yesterday.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhere is he?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLet me see him.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCertainly.ГўВҖВқ

And the next moment Luigi Vampa appeared before Danglars.

ГўВҖВңYou sent for me?ГўВҖВқ he said to the prisoner.

ГўВҖВңAre you, sir, the chief of the people who brought me here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency. What then?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow much do you require for my ransom?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMerely the 5,000,000 you have about you.ГўВҖВқ Danglars felt a dreadful
spasm dart through his heart.

ГўВҖВңBut this is all I have left in the world,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңout of an immense
fortune. If you deprive me of that, take away my life also.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe are forbidden to shed your blood.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd by whom are you forbidden?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy him we obey.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou do, then, obey someone?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, a chief.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thought you said you were the chief?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo I am of these men; but there is another over me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd did your superior order you to treat me in this way?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut my purse will be exhausted.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңProbably.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, ГўВҖВңwill you take a million?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTwo millions?ГўВҖВ”three?ГўВҖВ”four? Come, four? I will give them to you on
condition that you let me go.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhy do you offer me 4,000,000 for what is worth 5,000,000? This is a
kind of usury, banker, that I do not understand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake all, thenГўВҖВ”take all, I tell you, and kill me!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCome, come, calm yourself. You will excite your blood, and that would
produce an appetite it would require a million a day to satisfy. Be
more economical.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBut when I have no more money left to pay you?ГўВҖВқ asked the infuriated
Danglars.

ГўВҖВңThen you must suffer hunger.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSuffer hunger?ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, becoming pale.

ГўВҖВңMost likely,ГўВҖВқ replied Vampa coolly.

ГўВҖВңBut you say you do not wish to kill me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd yet you will let me perish with hunger?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, that is a different thing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, wretches,ГўВҖВқ cried Danglars, ГўВҖВңI will defy your infamous
calculationsГўВҖВ”I would rather die at once! You may torture, torment, kill
me, but you shall not have my signature again!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAs your excellency pleases,ГўВҖВқ said Vampa, as he left the cell.

Danglars, raving, threw himself on the goat-skin. Who could these men
be? Who was the invisible chief? What could be his intentions towards
him? And why, when everyone else was allowed to be ransomed, might he
not also be? Oh, yes; certainly a speedy, violent death would be a fine
means of deceiving these remorseless enemies, who appeared to pursue
him with such incomprehensible vengeance. But to die? For the first
time in his life, Danglars contemplated death with a mixture of dread
and desire; the time had come when the implacable spectre, which exists
in the mind of every human creature, arrested his attention and called
out with every pulsation of his heart, ГўВҖВңThou shalt die!ГўВҖВқ

Danglars resembled a timid animal excited in the chase; first it flies,
then despairs, and at last, by the very force of desperation, sometimes
succeeds in eluding its pursuers. Danglars meditated an escape; but the
walls were solid rock, a man was sitting reading at the only outlet to
the cell, and behind that man shapes armed with guns continually
passed. His resolution not to sign lasted two days, after which he
offered a million for some food. They sent him a magnificent supper,
and took his million.

From this time the prisoner resolved to suffer no longer, but to have
everything he wanted. At the end of twelve days, after having made a
splendid dinner, he reckoned his accounts, and found that he had only
50,000 francs left. Then a strange reaction took place; he who had just
abandoned 5,000,000 endeavored to save the 50,000 francs he had left,
and sooner than give them up he resolved to enter again upon a life of
privationГўВҖВ”he was deluded by the hopefulness that is a premonition of
madness.

He, who for so long a time had forgotten God, began to think that
miracles were possibleГўВҖВ”that the accursed cavern might be discovered by
the officers of the Papal States, who would release him; that then he
would have 50,000 remaining, which would be sufficient to save him from
starvation; and finally he prayed that this sum might be preserved to
him, and as he prayed he wept. Three days passed thus, during which his
prayers were frequent, if not heartfelt. Sometimes he was delirious,
and fancied he saw an old man stretched on a pallet; he, also, was
dying of hunger.

On the fourth, he was no longer a man, but a living corpse. He had
picked up every crumb that had been left from his former meals, and was
beginning to eat the matting which covered the floor of his cell. Then
he entreated Peppino, as he would a guardian angel, to give him food;
he offered him 1,000 francs for a mouthful of bread. But Peppino did
not answer. On the fifth day he dragged himself to the door of the
cell.

ГўВҖВңAre you not a Christian?ГўВҖВқ he said, falling on his knees. ГўВҖВңDo you wish
to assassinate a man who, in the eyes of Heaven, is a brother? Oh, my
former friends, my former friends!ГўВҖВқ he murmured, and fell with his face
to the ground. Then rising in despair, he exclaimed, ГўВҖВңThe chief, the
chief!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere I am,ГўВҖВқ said Vampa, instantly appearing; ГўВҖВңwhat do you want?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTake my last gold,ГўВҖВқ muttered Danglars, holding out his pocket-book,
ГўВҖВңand let me live here; I ask no more for libertyГўВҖВ”I only ask to live!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you suffer a great deal?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, yes, cruelly!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStill, there have been men who suffered more than you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI do not think so.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; those who have died of hunger.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars thought of the old man whom, in his hours of delirium, he had
seen groaning on his bed. He struck his forehead on the ground and
groaned. ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңthere have been some who have suffered more
than I have, but then they must have been martyrs at least.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you repent?ГўВҖВқ asked a deep, solemn voice, which caused DanglarsГўВҖВҷ
hair to stand on end. His feeble eyes endeavored to distinguish
objects, and behind the bandit he saw a man enveloped in a cloak, half
lost in the shadow of a stone column.

ГўВҖВңOf what must I repent?ГўВҖВқ stammered Danglars.

ГўВҖВңOf the evil you have done,ГўВҖВқ said the voice.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes; oh, yes, I do indeed repent.ГўВҖВқ And he struck his breast with
his emaciated fist.

ГўВҖВңThen I forgive you,ГўВҖВқ said the man, dropping his cloak, and advancing
to the light.

ГўВҖВңThe Count of Monte Cristo!ГўВҖВқ said Danglars, more pale from terror than
he had been just before from hunger and misery.

ГўВҖВңYou are mistakenГўВҖВ”I am not the Count of Monte Cristo.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen who are you?ГўВҖВқ

50261m



ГўВҖВңI am he whom you sold and dishonoredГўВҖВ”I am he whose betrothed you
prostitutedГўВҖВ”I am he upon whom you trampled that you might raise
yourself to fortuneГўВҖВ”I am he whose father you condemned to die of
hungerГўВҖВ”I am he whom you also condemned to starvation, and who yet
forgives you, because he hopes to be forgivenГўВҖВ”I am Edmond DantГғВЁs!ГўВҖВқ

Danglars uttered a cry, and fell prostrate.

ГўВҖВңRise,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyour life is safe; the same good fortune has
not happened to your accomplicesГўВҖВ”one is mad, the other dead. Keep the
50,000 francs you have leftГўВҖВ”I give them to you. The 5,000,000 you stole
from the hospitals has been restored to them by an unknown hand. And
now eat and drink; I will entertain you tonight. Vampa, when this man
is satisfied, let him be free.ГўВҖВқ

Danglars remained prostrate while the count withdrew; when he raised
his head he saw disappearing down the passage nothing but a shadow,
before which the bandits bowed.

According to the countГўВҖВҷs directions, Danglars was waited on by Vampa,
who brought him the best wine and fruits of Italy; then, having
conducted him to the road, and pointed to the post-chaise, left him
leaning against a tree. He remained there all night, not knowing where
he was. When daylight dawned he saw that he was near a stream; he was
thirsty, and dragged himself towards it. As he stooped down to drink,
he saw that his hair had become entirely white.



 Chapter 117. The Fifth of October

It was about six oГўВҖВҷclock in the evening; an opal-colored light, through
which an autumnal sun shed its golden rays, descended on the blue
ocean. The heat of the day had gradually decreased, and a light breeze
arose, seeming like the respiration of nature on awakening from the
burning siesta of the south. A delicious zephyr played along the coasts
of the Mediterranean, and wafted from shore to shore the sweet perfume
of plants, mingled with the fresh smell of the sea.

A light yacht, chaste and elegant in its form, was gliding amidst the
first dews of night over the immense lake, extending from Gibraltar to
the Dardanelles, and from Tunis to Venice. The vessel resembled a swan
with its wings opened towards the wind, gliding on the water. It
advanced swiftly and gracefully, leaving behind it a glittering stretch
of foam. By degrees the sun disappeared behind the western horizon; but
as though to prove the truth of the fanciful ideas in heathen
mythology, its indiscreet rays reappeared on the summit of every wave,
as if the god of fire had just sunk upon the bosom of Amphitrite, who
in vain endeavored to hide her lover beneath her azure mantle.

The yacht moved rapidly on, though there did not appear to be
sufficient wind to ruffle the curls on the head of a young girl.
Standing on the prow was a tall man, of a dark complexion, who saw with
dilating eyes that they were approaching a dark mass of land in the
shape of a cone, which rose from the midst of the waves like the hat of
a Catalan.

ГўВҖВңIs that Monte Cristo?ГўВҖВқ asked the traveller, to whose orders the yacht
was for the time submitted, in a melancholy voice.

ГўВҖВңYes, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ said the captain, ГўВҖВңwe have reached it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe have reached it!ГўВҖВқ repeated the traveller in an accent of
indescribable sadness.

Then he added, in a low tone, ГўВҖВңYes; that is the haven.ГўВҖВқ

And then he again plunged into a train of thought, the character of
which was better revealed by a sad smile, than it would have been by
tears. A few minutes afterwards a flash of light, which was
extinguished instantly, was seen on the land, and the sound of firearms
reached the yacht.

ГўВҖВңYour excellency,ГўВҖВқ said the captain, ГўВҖВңthat was the land signal, will
you answer yourself?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat signal?ГўВҖВқ

The captain pointed towards the island, up the side of which ascended a
volume of smoke, increasing as it rose.

ГўВҖВңAh, yes,ГўВҖВқ he said, as if awaking from a dream. ГўВҖВңGive it to me.ГўВҖВқ

The captain gave him a loaded carbine; the traveller slowly raised it,
and fired in the air. Ten minutes afterwards, the sails were furled,
and they cast anchor about a hundred fathoms from the little harbor.
The gig was already lowered, and in it were four oarsmen and a
coxswain. The traveller descended, and instead of sitting down at the
stern of the boat, which had been decorated with a blue carpet for his
accommodation, stood up with his arms crossed. The rowers waited, their
oars half lifted out of the water, like birds drying their wings.

50265m



ГўВҖВңGive way,ГўВҖВқ said the traveller. The eight oars fell into the sea
simultaneously without splashing a drop of water, and the boat,
yielding to the impulsion, glided forward. In an instant they found
themselves in a little harbor, formed in a natural creek; the boat
grounded on the fine sand.

ГўВҖВңWill your excellency be so good as to mount the shoulders of two of
our men, they will carry you ashore?ГўВҖВқ The young man answered this
invitation with a gesture of indifference, and stepped out of the boat;
the sea immediately rose to his waist.

ГўВҖВңAh, your excellency,ГўВҖВқ murmured the pilot, ГўВҖВңyou should not have done
so; our master will scold us for it.ГўВҖВқ

The young man continued to advance, following the sailors, who chose a
firm footing. Thirty strides brought them to dry land; the young man
stamped on the ground to shake off the wet, and looked around for
someone to show him his road, for it was quite dark. Just as he turned,
a hand rested on his shoulder, and a voice which made him shudder
exclaimed:

ГўВҖВңGood-evening, Maximilian; you are punctual, thank you!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh, is it you, count?ГўВҖВқ said the young man, in an almost joyful accent,
pressing Monte CristoГўВҖВҷs hand with both his own.

ГўВҖВңYes; you see I am as exact as you are. But you are dripping, my dear
fellow; you must change your clothes, as Calypso said to Telemachus.
Come, I have a habitation prepared for you in which you will soon
forget fatigue and cold.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo perceived that the young man had turned around; indeed,
Morrel saw with surprise that the men who had brought him had left
without being paid, or uttering a word. Already the sound of their oars
might be heard as they returned to the yacht.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңyou are looking for the sailors.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, I paid them nothing, and yet they are gone.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNever mind that, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo, smiling. ГўВҖВңI have made
an agreement with the navy, that the access to my island shall be free
of all charge. I have made a bargain.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel looked at the count with surprise. ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңyou are
not the same here as in Paris.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHere you laugh.ГўВҖВқ The countГўВҖВҷs brow became clouded.

ГўВҖВңYou are right to recall me to myself, Maximilian,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңI was
delighted to see you again, and forgot for the moment that all
happiness is fleeting.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, no, no, count,ГўВҖВқ cried Maximilian, seizing the countГўВҖВҷs hands, ГўВҖВңpray
laugh; be happy, and prove to me, by your indifference, that life is
endurable to sufferers. Oh, how charitable, kind, and good you are; you
affect this gayety to inspire me with courage.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou are wrong, Morrel; I was really happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you forget me, so much the better.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow so?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; for as the gladiator said to the emperor, when he entered the
arena, ГўВҖВҳHe who is about to die salutes you.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen you are not consoled?ГўВҖВқ asked the count, surprised.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel, with a glance full of bitter reproach, ГўВҖВңdo you
think it possible that I could be?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңListen,ГўВҖВқ said the count. ГўВҖВңDo you understand the meaning of my words?
You cannot take me for a commonplace man, a mere rattle, emitting a
vague and senseless noise. When I ask you if you are consoled, I speak
to you as a man for whom the human heart has no secrets. Well, Morrel,
let us both examine the depths of your heart. Do you still feel the
same feverish impatience of grief which made you start like a wounded
lion? Have you still that devouring thirst which can only be appeased
in the grave? Are you still actuated by the regret which drags the
living to the pursuit of death; or are you only suffering from the
prostration of fatigue and the weariness of hope deferred? Has the loss
of memory rendered it impossible for you to weep? Oh, my dear friend,
if this be the case,ГўВҖВ”if you can no longer weep, if your frozen heart be
dead, if you put all your trust in God, then, Maximilian, you are
consoledГўВҖВ”do not complain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, in a firm and at the same time soft voice,
ГўВҖВңlisten to me, as to a man whose thoughts are raised to heaven, though
he remains on earth; I come to die in the arms of a friend. Certainly,
there are people whom I love. I love my sister Julie,ГўВҖВ”I love her
husband Emmanuel; but I require a strong mind to smile on my last
moments. My sister would be bathed in tears and fainting; I could not
bear to see her suffer. Emmanuel would tear the weapon from my hand,
and alarm the house with his cries. You, count, who are more than
mortal, will, I am sure, lead me to death by a pleasant path, will you
not?ГўВҖВқ

50267m



ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңI have still one doubt,ГўВҖВ”are you weak
enough to pride yourself upon your sufferings?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo, indeed,ГўВҖВ”I am calm,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, giving his hand to the count; ГўВҖВңmy
pulse does not beat slower or faster than usual. No, I feel that I have
reached the goal, and I will go no farther. You told me to wait and
hope; do you know what you did, unfortunate adviser? I waited a month,
or rather I suffered for a month! I did hope (man is a poor wretched
creature), I did hope. What I cannot tell,ГўВҖВ”something wonderful, an
absurdity, a miracle,ГўВҖВ”of what nature he alone can tell who has mingled
with our reason that folly we call hope. Yes, I did waitГўВҖВ”yes, I did
hope, count, and during this quarter of an hour we have been talking
together, you have unconsciously wounded, tortured my heart, for every
word you have uttered proved that there was no hope for me. Oh, count,
I shall sleep calmly, deliciously in the arms of death.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel uttered these words with an energy which made the count shudder.

ГўВҖВңMy friend,ГўВҖВқ continued Morrel, ГўВҖВңyou named the fifth of October as the
end of the period of waiting,ГўВҖВ”today is the fifth of October,ГўВҖВқ he took
out his watch, ГўВҖВңit is now nine oГўВҖВҷclock,ГўВҖВ”I have yet three hours to
live.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBe it so,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңcome.ГўВҖВқ Morrel mechanically followed the
count, and they had entered the grotto before he perceived it. He felt
a carpet under his feet, a door opened, perfumes surrounded him, and a
brilliant light dazzled his eyes. Morrel hesitated to advance; he
dreaded the enervating effect of all that he saw. Monte Cristo drew him
in gently.

ГўВҖВңWhy should we not spend the last three hours remaining to us of life,
like those ancient Romans, who when condemned by Nero, their emperor
and heir, sat down at a table covered with flowers, and gently glided
into death, amid the perfume of heliotropes and roses?ГўВҖВқ

Morrel smiled. ГўВҖВңAs you please,ГўВҖВқ he said; ГўВҖВңdeath is always death,ГўВҖВ”that
is forgetfulness, repose, exclusion from life, and therefore from
grief.ГўВҖВқ

He sat down, and Monte Cristo placed himself opposite to him. They were
in the marvellous dining-room before described, where the statues had
baskets on their heads always filled with fruits and flowers. Morrel
had looked carelessly around, and had probably noticed nothing.

ГўВҖВңLet us talk like men,ГўВҖВқ he said, looking at the count.

ГўВҖВңGo on!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel, ГўВҖВңyou are the epitome of all human knowledge, and
you seem like a being descended from a wiser and more advanced world
than ours.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere is something true in what you say,ГўВҖВқ said the count, with that
smile which made him so handsome; ГўВҖВңI have descended from a planet
called grief.ГўВҖВқ

50269m



ГўВҖВңI believe all you tell me without questioning its meaning; for
instance, you told me to live, and I did live; you told me to hope, and
I almost did so. I am almost inclined to ask you, as though you had
experienced death, ГўВҖВҳis it painful to die?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo looked upon Morrel with indescribable tenderness. ГўВҖВңYes,ГўВҖВқ
he said, ГўВҖВңyes, doubtless it is painful, if you violently break the
outer covering which obstinately begs for life. If you plunge a dagger
into your flesh, if you insinuate a bullet into your brain, which the
least shock disorders,ГўВҖВ”then certainly, you will suffer pain, and you
will repent quitting a life for a repose you have bought at so dear a
price.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; I know that there is a secret of luxury and pain in death, as
well as in life; the only thing is to understand it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou have spoken truly, Maximilian; according to the care we bestow
upon it, death is either a friend who rocks us gently as a nurse, or an
enemy who violently drags the soul from the body. Some day, when the
world is much older, and when mankind will be masters of all the
destructive powers in nature, to serve for the general good of
humanity; when mankind, as you were just saying, have discovered the
secrets of death, then that death will become as sweet and voluptuous
as a slumber in the arms of your beloved.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd if you wished to die, you would choose this death, count?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel extended his hand. ГўВҖВңNow I understand,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңwhy you had me
brought here to this desolate spot, in the midst of the ocean, to this
subterranean palace; it was because you loved me, was it not, count? It
was because you loved me well enough to give me one of those sweet
means of death of which we were speaking; a death without agony, a
death which allows me to fade away while pronouncing ValentineГўВҖВҷs name
and pressing your hand.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes, you have guessed rightly, Morrel,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңthat is what
I intended.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThanks; the idea that tomorrow I shall no longer suffer, is sweet to
my heart.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you then regret nothing?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ replied Morrel.

ГўВҖВңNot even me?ГўВҖВқ asked the count with deep emotion. MorrelГўВҖВҷs clear eye
was for the moment clouded, then it shone with unusual lustre, and a
large tear rolled down his cheek.

ГўВҖВңWhat,ГўВҖВқ said the count, ГўВҖВңdo you still regret anything in the world, and
yet die?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, I entreat you,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Morrel in a low voice, ГўВҖВңdo not speak
another word, count; do not prolong my punishment.ГўВҖВқ

The count fancied that he was yielding, and this belief revived the
horrible doubt that had overwhelmed him at the ChГғВўteau dГўВҖВҷIf.

ГўВҖВңI am endeavoring,ГўВҖВқ he thought, ГўВҖВңto make this man happy; I look upon
this restitution as a weight thrown into the scale to balance the evil
I have wrought. Now, supposing I am deceived, supposing this man has
not been unhappy enough to merit happiness. Alas, what would become of
me who can only atone for evil by doing good?ГўВҖВқ

50271m



Then he said aloud: ГўВҖВңListen, Morrel, I see your grief is great, but
still you do not like to risk your soul.ГўВҖВқ Morrel smiled sadly.

ГўВҖВңCount,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңI swear to you my soul is no longer my own.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMaximilian, you know I have no relation in the world. I have
accustomed myself to regard you as my son: well, then, to save my son,
I will sacrifice my life, nay, even my fortune.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean, that you wish to quit life because you do not understand all
the enjoyments which are the fruits of a large fortune. Morrel, I
possess nearly a hundred millions and I give them to you; with such a
fortune you can attain every wish. Are you ambitious? Every career is
open to you. Overturn the world, change its character, yield to mad
ideas, be even criminalГўВҖВ”but live.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңCount, I have your word,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel coldly; then taking out his
watch, he added, ГўВҖВңIt is half-past eleven.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMorrel, can you intend it in my house, under my very eyes?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThen let me go,ГўВҖВқ said Maximilian, ГўВҖВңor I shall think you did not love
me for my own sake, but for yours;ГўВҖВқ and he arose.

ГўВҖВңIt is well,ГўВҖВқ said Monte Cristo whose countenance brightened at these
words; ГўВҖВңyou wish itГўВҖВ”you are inflexible. Yes, as you said, you are
indeed wretched and a miracle alone can cure you. Sit down, Morrel, and
wait.ГўВҖВқ

Morrel obeyed; the count arose, and unlocking a closet with a key
suspended from his gold chain, took from it a little silver casket,
beautifully carved and chased, the corners of which represented four
bending figures, similar to the Caryatides, the forms of women, symbols
of the angels aspiring to heaven.

He placed the casket on the table; then opening it took out a little
golden box, the top of which flew open when touched by a secret spring.
This box contained an unctuous substance partly solid, of which it was
impossible to discover the color, owing to the reflection of the
polished gold, sapphires, rubies, emeralds, which ornamented the box.
It was a mixed mass of blue, red, and gold.

The count took out a small quantity of this with a gilt spoon, and
offered it to Morrel, fixing a long steadfast glance upon him. It was
then observable that the substance was greenish.

ГўВҖВңThis is what you asked for,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңand what I promised to give
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI thank you from the depths of my heart,ГўВҖВқ said the young man, taking
the spoon from the hands of Monte Cristo. The count took another spoon,
and again dipped it into the golden box. ГўВҖВңWhat are you going to do, my
friend?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel, arresting his hand.

ГўВҖВңWell, the fact is, Morrel, I was thinking that I too am weary of life,
and since an opportunity presents itselfГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңStay!ГўВҖВқ said the young man. ГўВҖВңYou who love, and are beloved; you, who
have faith and hope,ГўВҖВ”oh, do not follow my example. In your case it
would be a crime. Adieu, my noble and generous friend, adieu; I will go
and tell Valentine what you have done for me.ГўВҖВқ

And slowly, though without any hesitation, only waiting to press the
countГўВҖВҷs hand fervently, he swallowed the mysterious substance offered
by Monte Cristo. Then they were both silent. Ali, mute and attentive,
brought the pipes and coffee, and disappeared. By degrees, the light of
the lamps gradually faded in the hands of the marble statues which held
them, and the perfumes appeared less powerful to Morrel. Seated
opposite to him, Monte Cristo watched him in the shadow, and Morrel saw
nothing but the bright eyes of the count. An overpowering sadness took
possession of the young man, his hands relaxed their hold, the objects
in the room gradually lost their form and color, and his disturbed
vision seemed to perceive doors and curtains open in the wall.

50273m



ГўВҖВңFriend,ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңI feel that I am dying; thanks!ГўВҖВқ

He made a last effort to extend his hand, but it fell powerless beside
him. Then it appeared to him that Monte Cristo smiled, not with the
strange and fearful expression which had sometimes revealed to him the
secrets of his heart, but with the benevolent kindness of a father for
a child. At the same time the count appeared to increase in stature,
his form, nearly double its usual height, stood out in relief against
the red tapestry, his black hair was thrown back, and he stood in the
attitude of an avenging angel. Morrel, overpowered, turned around in
the armchair; a delicious torpor permeated every vein. A change of
ideas presented themselves to his brain, like a new design on the
kaleidoscope. Enervated, prostrate, and breathless, he became
unconscious of outward objects; he seemed to be entering that vague
delirium preceding death. He wished once again to press the countГўВҖВҷs
hand, but his own was immovable. He wished to articulate a last
farewell, but his tongue lay motionless and heavy in his throat, like a
stone at the mouth of a sepulchre. Involuntarily his languid eyes
closed, and still through his eyelashes a well-known form seemed to
move amid the obscurity with which he thought himself enveloped.

The count had just opened a door. Immediately a brilliant light from
the next room, or rather from the palace adjoining, shone upon the room
in which he was gently gliding into his last sleep. Then he saw a woman
of marvellous beauty appear on the threshold of the door separating the
two rooms. Pale, and sweetly smiling, she looked like an angel of mercy
conjuring the angel of vengeance.

ГўВҖВңIs it heaven that opens before me?ГўВҖВқ thought the dying man; ГўВҖВңthat angel
resembles the one I have lost.ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo pointed out Morrel to the young woman, who advanced
towards him with clasped hands and a smile upon her lips.

ГўВҖВңValentine, Valentine!ГўВҖВқ he mentally ejaculated; but his lips uttered no
sound, and as though all his strength were centred in that internal
emotion, he sighed and closed his eyes. Valentine rushed towards him;
his lips again moved.

ГўВҖВңHe is calling you,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңhe to whom you have confided your
destinyГўВҖВ”he from whom death would have separated you, calls you to him.
Happily, I vanquished death. Henceforth, Valentine, you will never
again be separated on earth, since he has rushed into death to find
you. Without me, you would both have died. May God accept my atonement
in the preservation of these two existences!ГўВҖВқ

Valentine seized the countГўВҖВҷs hand, and in her irresistible impulse of
joy carried it to her lips.

50275m



ГўВҖВңOh, thank me again!ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңtell me till you are weary, that
I have restored you to happiness; you do not know how much I require
this assurance.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, yes, I thank you with all my heart,ГўВҖВқ said Valentine; ГўВҖВңand if
you doubt the sincerity of my gratitude, oh, then, ask HaydГғВ©e! ask my
beloved sister HaydГғВ©e, who ever since our departure from France, has
caused me to wait patiently for this happy day, while talking to me of
you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou then love HaydГғВ©e?ГўВҖВқ asked Monte Cristo with an emotion he in vain
endeavored to dissimulate.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes, with all my soul.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWell, then, listen, Valentine,ГўВҖВқ said the count; ГўВҖВңI have a favor to ask
of you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf me? Oh, am I happy enough for that?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYes; you have called HaydГғВ©e your sister,ГўВҖВ”let her become so indeed,
Valentine; render her all the gratitude you fancy that you owe to me;
protect her, forГўВҖВқ (the countГўВҖВҷs voice was thick with emotion)
ГўВҖВңhenceforth she will be alone in the world.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAlone in the world!ГўВҖВқ repeated a voice behind the count, ГўВҖВңand why?ГўВҖВқ

Monte Cristo turned around; HaydГғВ©e was standing pale, motionless,
looking at the count with an expression of fearful amazement.

ГўВҖВңBecause tomorrow, HaydГғВ©e, you will be free; you will then assume your
proper position in society, for I will not allow my destiny to
overshadow yours. Daughter of a prince, I restore to you the riches and
name of your father.ГўВҖВқ

HaydГғВ©e became pale, and lifting her transparent hands to heaven,
exclaimed in a voice stifled with tears, ГўВҖВңThen you leave me, my lord?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHaydГғВ©e, HaydГғВ©e, you are young and beautiful; forget even my name, and
be happy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is well,ГўВҖВқ said HaydГғВ©e; ГўВҖВңyour order shall be executed, my lord; I
will forget even your name, and be happy.ГўВҖВқ And she stepped back to
retire.

ГўВҖВңOh, heavens,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Valentine, who was supporting the head of
Morrel on her shoulder, ГўВҖВңdo you not see how pale she is? Do you not see
how she suffers?ГўВҖВқ

HaydГғВ©e answered with a heartrending expression,

ГўВҖВңWhy should he understand this, my sister? He is my master, and I am
his slave; he has the right to notice nothing.ГўВҖВқ

The count shuddered at the tones of a voice which penetrated the inmost
recesses of his heart; his eyes met those of the young girl and he
could not bear their brilliancy.

ГўВҖВңOh, heavens,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Monte Cristo, ГўВҖВңcan my suspicions be correct?
HaydГғВ©e, would it please you not to leave me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am young,ГўВҖВқ gently replied HaydГғВ©e; ГўВҖВңI love the life you have made so
sweet to me, and I should be sorry to die.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou mean, then, that if I leave you, HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI should die; yes, my lord.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you then love me?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOh, Valentine, he asks if I love him. Valentine, tell him if you love
Maximilian.ГўВҖВқ

The count felt his heart dilate and throb; he opened his arms, and
HaydГғВ©e, uttering a cry, sprang into them.

ГўВҖВңOh, yes,ГўВҖВқ she cried, ГўВҖВңI do love you! I love you as one loves a father,
brother, husband! I love you as my life, for you are the best, the
noblest of created beings!ГўВҖВқ

50277m



ГўВҖВңLet it be, then, as you wish, sweet angel; God has sustained me in my
struggle with my enemies, and has given me this reward; he will not let
me end my triumph in suffering; I wished to punish myself, but he has
pardoned me. Love me then, HaydГғВ©e! Who knows? perhaps your love will
make me forget all that I do not wish to remember.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean, my lord?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI mean that one word from you has enlightened me more than twenty
years of slow experience; I have but you in the world, HaydГғВ©e; through
you I again take hold on life, through you I shall suffer, through you
rejoice.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңDo you hear him, Valentine?ГўВҖВқ exclaimed HaydГғВ©e; ГўВҖВңhe says that through
me he will sufferГўВҖВ”through _me_, who would yield my life for his.ГўВҖВқ

The count withdrew for a moment. ГўВҖВңHave I discovered the truth?ГўВҖВқ he
said; ГўВҖВңbut whether it be for recompense or punishment, I accept my
fate. Come, HaydГғВ©e, come!ГўВҖВқ and throwing his arm around the young girlГўВҖВҷs
waist, he pressed the hand of Valentine, and disappeared.

50279m



An hour had nearly passed, during which Valentine, breathless and
motionless, watched steadfastly over Morrel. At length she felt his
heart beat, a faint breath played upon his lips, a slight shudder,
announcing the return of life, passed through the young manГўВҖВҷs frame. At
length his eyes opened, but they were at first fixed and
expressionless; then sight returned, and with it feeling and grief.

ГўВҖВңOh,ГўВҖВқ he cried, in an accent of despair, ГўВҖВңthe count has deceived me; I
am yet living;ГўВҖВқ and extending his hand towards the table, he seized a
knife.

ГўВҖВңDearest,ГўВҖВқ exclaimed Valentine, with her adorable smile, ГўВҖВңawake, and
look at me!ГўВҖВқ Morrel uttered a loud exclamation, and frantic, doubtful,
dazzled, as though by a celestial vision, he fell upon his knees.

The next morning at daybreak, Valentine and Morrel were walking
arm-in-arm on the seashore, Valentine relating how Monte Cristo had
appeared in her room, explained everything, revealed the crime, and,
finally, how he had saved her life by enabling her to simulate death.

They had found the door of the grotto opened, and gone forth; on the
azure dome of heaven still glittered a few remaining stars.

Morrel soon perceived a man standing among the rocks, apparently
awaiting a sign from them to advance, and pointed him out to Valentine.

ГўВҖВңAh, it is Jacopo,ГўВҖВқ she said, ГўВҖВңthe captain of the yacht;ГўВҖВқ and she
beckoned him towards them.

ГўВҖВңDo you wish to speak to us?ГўВҖВқ asked Morrel.

ГўВҖВңI have a letter to give you from the count.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңFrom the count!ГўВҖВқ murmured the two young people.

ГўВҖВңYes; read it.ГўВҖВқ

50281m



Morrel opened the letter, and read:

ГўВҖВңMy Dear Maximilian,

ГўВҖВңThere is a felucca for you at anchor. Jacopo will carry you to
Leghorn, where Monsieur Noirtier awaits his granddaughter, whom he
wishes to bless before you lead her to the altar. All that is in this
grotto, my friend, my house in the Champs-ГғВүlysГғВ©es, and my chГғВўteau at
TrГғВ©port, are the marriage gifts bestowed by Edmond DantГғВЁs upon the son
of his old master, Morrel. Mademoiselle de Villefort will share them
with you; for I entreat her to give to the poor the immense fortune
reverting to her from her father, now a madman, and her brother who
died last September with his mother. Tell the angel who will watch over
your future destiny, Morrel, to pray sometimes for a man, who, like
Satan, thought himself for an instant equal to God, but who now
acknowledges with Christian humility that God alone possesses supreme
power and infinite wisdom. Perhaps those prayers may soften the remorse
he feels in his heart. As for you, Morrel, this is the secret of my
conduct towards you. There is neither happiness nor misery in the
world; there is only the comparison of one state with another, nothing
more. He who has felt the deepest grief is best able to experience
supreme happiness. We must have felt what it is to die, Morrel, that we
may appreciate the enjoyments of living.

ГўВҖВңLive, then, and be happy, beloved children of my heart, and never
forget that until the day when God shall deign to reveal the future to
man, all human wisdom is summed up in these two words,ГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳ_Wait and
hope_.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”Your friend,

ГўВҖВңEdmond DantГғВЁs, _Count of Monte Cristo_.ГўВҖВқ

50282m



During the perusal of this letter, which informed Valentine for the
first time of the madness of her father and the death of her brother,
she became pale, a heavy sigh escaped from her bosom, and tears, not
the less painful because they were silent, ran down her cheeks; her
happiness cost her very dear.

Morrel looked around uneasily.

ГўВҖВңBut,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңthe countГўВҖВҷs generosity is too overwhelming; Valentine
will be satisfied with my humble fortune. Where is the count, friend?
Lead me to him.ГўВҖВқ

Jacopo pointed towards the horizon.

ГўВҖВңWhat do you mean?ГўВҖВқ asked Valentine. ГўВҖВңWhere is the count?ГўВҖВ”where is
HaydГғВ©e?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLook!ГўВҖВқ said Jacopo.

The eyes of both were fixed upon the spot indicated by the sailor, and
on the blue line separating the sky from the Mediterranean Sea, they
perceived a large white sail.

ГўВҖВңGone,ГўВҖВқ said Morrel; ГўВҖВңgone!ГўВҖВ”adieu, my friendГўВҖВ”adieu, my father!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGone,ГўВҖВқ murmured Valentine; ГўВҖВңadieu, my sweet HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВ”adieu, my sister!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho can say whether we shall ever see them again?ГўВҖВқ said Morrel with
tearful eyes.

ГўВҖВңDarling,ГўВҖВқ replied Valentine, ГўВҖВңhas not the count just told us that all
human wisdom is summed up in two words:

ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳ_Wait and hope_ (Fac et spera)!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ




FOOTNOTES:


[1] ГўВҖВңThe wicked are great drinkers of water; As the flood proved once
for all.ГўВҖВқ

[2] $2,600,000 in 1894.

[3] Knocked on the head.

[4] Beheaded.

[5] Scott, of course: ГўВҖВңThe son of an ill-fated sire, and the father of
a yet more unfortunate family, bore in his looks that cast of
inauspicious melancholy by which the physiognomists of that time
pretended to distinguish those who were predestined to a violent and
unhappy death.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”The Abbot, ch. xxii.

[6] Guillotine.

[7] Dr. Guillotin got the idea of his famous machine from witnessing an
execution in Italy.

[8] Brucea ferruginea.

[9] ГўВҖВҳMoney and sanctity, Each in a moiety.ГўВҖВҷ

[10] Elisabeth de Rossan, Marquise de Ganges, was one of the famous
women of the court of Louis XIV. where she was known as ГўВҖВңLa Belle
ProvenГғВ§ale.ГўВҖВқ She was the widow of the Marquis de Castellane when she
married de Ganges, and having the misfortune to excite the enmity of
her new brothers-in-law, was forced by them to take poison; and they
finished her off with pistol and dagger.ГўВҖВ”Ed.

[11] Magistrate and orator of great eloquenceГўВҖВ”chancellor of France
under Louis XV.

[12] Jacques-Louis David, a famous French painter (1748-1825).

[13] Ali Pasha, ГўВҖВңThe Lion,ГўВҖВқ was born at Tepelini, an Albanian village
at the foot of the Klissoura Mountains, in 1741. By diplomacy and
success in arms he became almost supreme ruler of Albania, Epirus, and
adjacent territory. Having aroused the enmity of the Sultan, he was
proscribed and put to death by treachery in 1822, at the age of
eighty.ГўВҖВ”Ed.

[14] Greek militiamen in the war for independence.ГўВҖВ”Ed.

[15] A Turkish pasha in command of the troops of a province.ГўВҖВ”Ed.

[16] The god of fruitfulness in Grecian mythology. In Crete he was
supposed to be slain in winter with the decay of vegetation and to
revive in the spring. HaydГғВ©eГўВҖВҷs learned reference is to the behavior of
an actor in the Dionysian festivals.ГўВҖВ”Ed.

[17] The Genoese conspirator.

[18] Lake Maggiore.

[19] In the old Greek legend the Atreidae, or children of Atreus, were
doomed to punishment because of the abominable crime of their father.
The _Agamemnon_ of Aeschylus is based on this legend.

[20] The performance of the civil marriage.

[21] In MoliГғВЁreГўВҖВҷs comedy, _Le Misanthrope_.

[22] Literally, ГўВҖВңthe basket,ГўВҖВқ because wedding gifts were originally
brought in such a receptacle.

[23] Germain Pillon was a famous French sculptor (1535-1598). His best
known work is ГўВҖВңThe Three Graces,ГўВҖВқ now in the Louvre.

[24] FrГғВ©dГғВ©rick LemaГғВ®treГўВҖВ”French actor (1800-1876). Robert Macaire is the
hero of two favorite melodramasГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңChien de MontargisГўВҖВқ and ГўВҖВңChien
dГўВҖВҷAubryГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”and the name is applied to bold criminals as a term of
derision.

[25] The Spahis are French cavalry reserved for service in Africa.

[26] _Savate_: an old shoe.

[27] Guilbert de PixГғВ©rГғВ©court, French dramatist (1773-1844).

[28] Gaspard Puget, the sculptor-architect, was born at Marseilles in
1615.

[29] The CarolinaГўВҖВ”not VirginiaГўВҖВ”jessamine, _gelsemium sempervirens_
(properly speaking not a jessamine at all) has yellow blossoms. The
reference is no doubt to the _Wistaria frutescens_.ГўВҖВ”Ed.

[30] The miser in MoliГғВЁreГўВҖВҷs comedy of _LГўВҖВҷAvare_.ГўВҖВ”Ed.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous oneГўВҖВ”the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERGГўВ„Вў
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given awayГўВҖВ”you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase ГўВҖВңProject
GutenbergГўВҖВқ), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. ГўВҖВңProject GutenbergГўВҖВқ is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (ГўВҖВңthe
FoundationГўВҖВқ or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work (any work
on which the phrase ГўВҖВңProject GutenbergГўВҖВқ appears, or with which the
phrase ГўВҖВңProject GutenbergГўВҖВқ is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase ГўВҖВңProject
GutenbergГўВҖВқ associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work in a format
other than ГўВҖВңPlain Vanilla ASCIIГўВҖВқ or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original ГўВҖВңPlain
Vanilla ASCIIГўВҖВқ or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works
provided that:

    ГўВҖВў You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, ГўВҖВңInformation about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.ГўВҖВқ
    
    ГўВҖВў You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
        works.
    
    ГўВҖВў You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    ГўВҖВў You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў collection. Despite these efforts, Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain ГўВҖВңDefects,ГўВҖВқ such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the ГўВҖВңRight
of Replacement or RefundГўВҖВқ described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ГўВҖВҳAS-ISГўВҖВҷ, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў

Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project GutenbergГўВ„ВўГўВҖВҷs
goals and ensuring that the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The FoundationГўВҖВҷs EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your stateГўВҖВҷs laws.

The FoundationГўВҖВҷs business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the FoundationГўВҖВҷs website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


