ГҜВ»ВҝThe Project Gutenberg eBook of The divine comedy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The divine comedy

Author: Dante Alighieri

Illustrator: Gustave DorГғВ©

Translator: Henry Francis Cary

Release date: September 1, 2005 [eBook #8800]
                Most recently updated: January 14, 2023

Language: English

Credits: David Widger


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DIVINE COMEDY ***




THE DIVINE COMEDY

THE VISION
of
HELL, PURGATORY, AND PARADISE

BY DANTE ALIGHIERI


TRANSLATED BY
THE REV. H. F. CARY, M.A.

Illustrated by M. Gustave DorГғВ©




LIST OF CANTOS

 HELL
 Canto 1
 Canto 2
 Canto 3
 Canto 4
 Canto 5
 Canto 6
 Canto 7
 Canto 8
 Canto 9
 Canto 10
 Canto 11
 Canto 12
 Canto 13
 Canto 14
 Canto 15
 Canto 16
 Canto 17
 Canto 18
 Canto 19
 Canto 20
 Canto 21
 Canto 22
 Canto 23
 Canto 24
 Canto 25
 Canto 26
 Canto 27
 Canto 28
 Canto 29
 Canto 30
 Canto 31
 Canto 32
 Canto 33
 Canto 34

 PURGATORY
 Canto 1
 Canto 2
 Canto 3
 Canto 4
 Canto 5
 Canto 6
 Canto 7
 Canto 8
 Canto 9
 Canto 10
 Canto 11
 Canto 12
 Canto 13
 Canto 14
 Canto 15
 Canto 16
 Canto 17
 Canto 18
 Canto 19
 Canto 20
 Canto 21
 Canto 22
 Canto 23
 Canto 24
 Canto 25
 Canto 26
 Canto 27
 Canto 28
 Canto 29
 Canto 30
 Canto 31
 Canto 32
 Canto 33

  PARADISE
 Canto 1
 Canto 2
 Canto 3
 Canto 4
 Canto 5
 Canto 6
 Canto 7
 Canto 8
 Canto 9
 Canto 10
 Canto 11
 Canto 12
 Canto 13
 Canto 14
 Canto 15
 Canto 16
 Canto 17
 Canto 18
 Canto 19
 Canto 20
 Canto 21
 Canto 22
 Canto 23
 Canto 24
 Canto 25
 Canto 26
 Canto 27
 Canto 28
 Canto 29
 Canto 30
 Canto 31
 Canto 32
 Canto 33




HELL
OR THE INFERNO




CANTO I


In the midway of this our mortal life,
I found me in a gloomy wood, astray
Gone from the path direct: and eГўВҖВҷen to tell
It were no easy task, how savage wild
That forest, how robust and rough its growth,
Which to remember only, my dismay
Renews, in bitterness not far from death.
Yet to discourse of what there good befell,
All else will I relate discoverГўВҖВҷd there.
How first I enterГўВҖВҷd it I scarce can say,
Such sleepy dullness in that instant weighГўВҖВҷd
My senses down, when the true path I left,
But when a mountainГўВҖВҷs foot I reachГўВҖВҷd, where closГўВҖВҷd
The valley, that had piercГўВҖВҷd my heart with dread,
I lookГўВҖВҷd aloft, and saw his shoulders broad
Already vested with that planetГўВҖВҷs beam,
Who leads all wanderers safe through every way.

Then was a little respite to the fear,
That in my heartГўВҖВҷs recesses deep had lain,
All of that night, so pitifully passГўВҖВҷd:
And as a man, with difficult short breath,
Forespent with toiling, ГўВҖВҷscapГўВҖВҷd from sea to shore,
Turns to the perilous wide waste, and stands
At gaze; eГўВҖВҷen so my spirit, that yet failГўВҖВҷd
Struggling with terror, turnГўВҖВҷd to view the straits,
That none hath passГўВҖВҷd and livГўВҖВҷd. My weary frame
After short pause recomforted, again
I journeyГўВҖВҷd on over that lonely steep,

The hinder foot still firmer. Scarce the ascent
Began, when, lo! a panther, nimble, light,
And coverГўВҖВҷd with a speckled skin, appearГўВҖВҷd,
Nor, when it saw me, vanishГўВҖВҷd, rather strove
To check my onward going; that ofttimes
With purpose to retrace my steps I turnГўВҖВҷd.

The hour was morningГўВҖВҷs prime, and on his way
Aloft the sun ascended with those stars,
That with him rose, when Love divine first movГўВҖВҷd
Those its fair works: so that with joyous hope
All things conspirГўВҖВҷd to fill me, the gay skin
Of that swift animal, the matin dawn
And the sweet season. Soon that joy was chasГўВҖВҷd,
And by new dread succeeded, when in view
A lion came, ГўВҖВҷgainst me, as it appearГўВҖВҷd,

With his head held aloft and hunger-mad,
That eГўВҖВҷen the air was fear-struck. A she-wolf
Was at his heels, who in her leanness seemГўВҖВҷd
Full of all wants, and many a land hath made
Disconsolate ere now. She with such fear
OГўВҖВҷerwhelmed me, at the sight of her appallГўВҖВҷd,
That of the height all hope I lost. As one,
Who with his gain elated, sees the time
When all unwares is gone, he inwardly
Mourns with heart-griping anguish; such was I,
Haunted by that fell beast, never at peace,
Who coming oГўВҖВҷer against me, by degrees
ImpellГўВҖВҷd me where the sun in silence rests.

While to the lower space with backward step
I fell, my ken discernГўВҖВҷd the form one of one,
Whose voice seemГўВҖВҷd faint through long disuse of speech.
When him in that great desert I espied,
ГўВҖВңHave mercy on me!ГўВҖВқ cried I out aloud,
ГўВҖВңSpirit! or living man! what eГўВҖВҷer thou be!ГўВҖВқ

He answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңNow not man, man once I was,
And born of Lombard parents, Mantuana both
By country, when the power of Julius yet
Was scarcely firm. At Rome my life was past
Beneath the mild Augustus, in the time
Of fabled deities and false. A bard
Was I, and made AnchisesГўВҖВҷ upright son
The subject of my song, who came from Troy,
When the flames preyГўВҖВҷd on IliumГўВҖВҷs haughty towers.
But thou, say wherefore to such perils past
ReturnГўВҖВҷst thou? wherefore not this pleasant mount
Ascendest, cause and source of all delight?ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңAnd art thou then that Virgil, that well-spring,
From which such copious floods of eloquence
Have issued?ГўВҖВқ I with front abashГўВҖВҷd replied.
ГўВҖВңGlory and light of all the tuneful train!
May it avail me that I long with zeal
Have sought thy volume, and with love immense
Have connГўВҖВҷd it oГўВҖВҷer. My master thou and guide!
Thou he from whom alone I have derivГўВҖВҷd
That style, which for its beauty into fame
Exalts me. See the beast, from whom I fled.
O save me from her, thou illustrious sage!

ГўВҖВңFor every vein and pulse throughout my frame
She hath made tremble.ГўВҖВқ He, soon as he saw
That I was weeping, answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңThou must needs
Another way pursue, if thou wouldst ГўВҖВҷscape
From out that savage wilderness. This beast,
At whom thou criest, her way will suffer none
To pass, and no less hindrance makes than death:
So bad and so accursed in her kind,
That never sated is her ravenous will,
Still after food more craving than before.
To many an animal in wedlock vile
She fastens, and shall yet to many more,
Until that greyhound come, who shall destroy
Her with sharp pain. He will not life support
By earth nor its base metals, but by love,
Wisdom, and virtue, and his land shall be
The land ГўВҖВҷtwixt either Feltro. In his might
Shall safety to ItaliaГўВҖВҷs plains arise,
For whose fair realm, Camilla, virgin pure,
Nisus, Euryalus, and Turnus fell.
He with incessant chase through every town
Shall worry, until he to hell at length
Restore her, thence by envy first let loose.
I for thy profit pondГўВҖВҷring now devise,
That thou mayst follow me, and I thy guide
Will lead thee hence through an eternal space,
Where thou shalt hear despairing shrieks, and see
Spirits of old tormented, who invoke
A second death; and those next view, who dwell
Content in fire, for that they hope to come,
WheneГўВҖВҷer the time may be, among the blest,
Into whose regions if thou then desire
TГўВҖВҷ ascend, a spirit worthier than I
Must lead thee, in whose charge, when I depart,
Thou shalt be left: for that Almighty King,
Who reigns above, a rebel to his law,
Adjudges me, and therefore hath decreed,
That to his city none through me should come.
He in all parts hath sway; there rules, there holds
His citadel and throne. O happy those,
Whom there he chooses!ГўВҖВқ I to him in few:
ГўВҖВңBard! by that God, whom thou didst not adore,
I do beseech thee (that this ill and worse
I may escape) to lead me, where thou saidst,
That I Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs gate may view, and those
Who as thou tellГўВҖВҷst, are in such dismal plight.ГўВҖВқ

Onward he movГўВҖВҷd, I close his steps pursuГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO II


Now was the day departing, and the air,
ImbrownГўВҖВҷd with shadows, from their toils releasГўВҖВҷd
All animals on earth; and I alone
PreparГўВҖВҷd myself the conflict to sustain,
Both of sad pity, and that perilous road,
Which my unerring memory shall retrace.

O Muses! O high genius! now vouchsafe
Your aid! O mind! that all I saw hast kept
Safe in a written record, here thy worth
And eminent endowments come to proof.

I thus began: ГўВҖВңBard! thou who art my guide,
Consider well, if virtue be in me
Sufficient, ere to this high enterprise
Thou trust me. Thou hast told that SilviusГўВҖВҷ sire,
Yet clothГўВҖВҷd in corruptible flesh, among
ThГўВҖВҷ immortal tribes had entrance, and was there
Sensible present. Yet if heavenГўВҖВҷs great Lord,
Almighty foe to ill, such favour shewГўВҖВҷd,
In contemplation of the high effect,
Both what and who from him should issue forth,
It seems in reasonГўВҖВҷs judgment well deservГўВҖВҷd:
Sith he of Rome, and of RomeГўВҖВҷs empire wide,
In heavenГўВҖВҷs empyreal height was chosen sire:
Both which, if truth be spoken, were ordainГўВҖВҷd
And ГўВҖВҷstablishГўВҖВҷd for the holy place, where sits
Who to great PeterГўВҖВҷs sacred chair succeeds.
He from this journey, in thy song renownГўВҖВҷd,
LearnГўВҖВҷd things, that to his victory gave rise
And to the papal robe. In after-times
The chosen vessel also travelГўВҖВҷd there,
To bring us back assurance in that faith,
Which is the entrance to salvationГўВҖВҷs way.
But I, why should I there presume? or who
Permits it? not Aeneas I nor Paul.
Myself I deem not worthy, and none else
Will deem me. I, if on this voyage then
I venture, fear it will in folly end.
Thou, who art wise, better my meaning knowГўВҖВҷst,
Than I can speak.ГўВҖВқ As one, who unresolves
What he hath late resolvГўВҖВҷd, and with new thoughts
Changes his purpose, from his first intent
RemovГўВҖВҷd; eГўВҖВҷen such was I on that dun coast,
Wasting in thought my enterprise, at first
So eagerly embracГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңIf right thy words
I scan,ГўВҖВқ replied that shade magnanimous,
ГўВҖВңThy soul is by vile fear assailГўВҖВҷd, which oft
So overcasts a man, that he recoils
From noblest resolution, like a beast
At some false semblance in the twilight gloom.
That from this terror thou mayst free thyself,
I will instruct thee why I came, and what
I heard in that same instant, when for thee
Grief touchГўВҖВҷd me first. I was among the tribe,
Who rest suspended, when a dame, so blest
And lovely, I besought her to command,
CallГўВҖВҷd me; her eyes were brighter than the star
Of day; and she with gentle voice and soft
Angelically tunГўВҖВҷd her speech addressГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңO courteous shade of Mantua! thou whose fame
Yet lives, and shall live long as nature lasts!
A friend, not of my fortune but myself,
On the wide desert in his road has met
Hindrance so great, that he through fear has turnГўВҖВҷd.
Now much I dread lest he past help have strayГўВҖВҷd,
And I be risГўВҖВҷn too late for his relief,
From what in heaven of him I heard. Speed now,
And by thy eloquent persuasive tongue,
And by all means for his deliverance meet,
Assist him. So to me will comfort spring.
I who now bid thee on this errand forth
Am Beatrice; from a place I come.

(Note: Beatrice. I use this word, as it is
pronounced in the Italian, as consisting of four
syllables, of which the third is a long one.) Revisited with joy. Love
brought me thence,
Who prompts my speech. When in my MasterГўВҖВҷs sight
I stand, thy praise to him I oft will tell.ГўВҖВқ

She then was silent, and I thus began:
ГўВҖВңO Lady! by whose influence alone,
Mankind excels whatever is containГўВҖВҷd
Within that heaven which hath the smallest orb,
So thy command delights me, that to obey,
If it were done already, would seem late.
No need hast thou farther to speak thy will;
Yet tell the reason, why thou art not loth
To leave that ample space, where to return
Thou burnest, for this centre here beneath.ГўВҖВқ

She then: ГўВҖВңSince thou so deeply wouldst inquire,
I will instruct thee briefly, why no dread
Hinders my entrance here. Those things alone
Are to be fearГўВҖВҷd, whence evil may proceed,
None else, for none are terrible beside.
I am so framГўВҖВҷd by God, thanks to his grace!
That any suffГўВҖВҷrance of your misery
Touches me not, nor flame of that fierce fire
Assails me. In high heaven a blessed dame
Besides, who mourns with such effectual grief
That hindrance, which I send thee to remove,
That GodГўВҖВҷs stern judgment to her will inclines.ГўВҖВқ
To Lucia calling, her she thus bespake:
ГўВҖВңNow doth thy faithful servant need thy aid
And I commend him to thee.ГўВҖВқ At her word
Sped Lucia, of all cruelty the foe,
And coming to the place, where I abode
Seated with Rachel, her of ancient days,
She thus addressГўВҖВҷd me: ГўВҖВңThou true praise of God!
Beatrice! why is not thy succour lent
To him, who so much lovГўВҖВҷd thee, as to leave
For thy sake all the multitude admires?
Dost thou not hear how pitiful his wail,
Nor mark the death, which in the torrent flood,
Swoln mightier than a sea, him struggling holds?ГўВҖВқ
NeГўВҖВҷer among men did any with such speed
Haste to their profit, flee from their annoy,
As when these words were spoken, I came here,
Down from my blessed seat, trusting the force
Of thy pure eloquence, which thee, and all
Who well have markГўВҖВҷd it, into honour brings.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen she had ended, her bright beaming eyes
Tearful she turnГўВҖВҷd aside; whereat I felt
Redoubled zeal to serve thee. As she willГўВҖВҷd,
Thus am I come: I savГўВҖВҷd thee from the beast,
Who thy near way across the goodly mount
Prevented. What is this comes oГўВҖВҷer thee then?
Why, why dost thou hang back? why in thy breast
Harbour vile fear? why hast not courage there
And noble daring? Since three maids so blest
Thy safety plan, eГўВҖВҷen in the court of heaven;
And so much certain good my words forebode.ГўВҖВқ

As florets, by the frosty air of night
Bent down and closГўВҖВҷd, when day has blanchГўВҖВҷd their leaves,
Rise all unfolded on their spiry stems;
So was my fainting vigour new restorГўВҖВҷd,
And to my heart such kindly courage ran,
That I as one undaunted soon replied:
ГўВҖВңO full of pity she, who undertook
My succour! and thou kind who didst perform
So soon her true behest! With such desire
Thou hast disposГўВҖВҷd me to renew my voyage,
That my first purpose fully is resumГўВҖВҷd.
Lead on: one only will is in us both.
Thou art my guide, my master thou, and lord.ГўВҖВқ

So spake I; and when he had onward movГўВҖВҷd,
I enterГўВҖВҷd on the deep and woody way.




CANTO III


ГўВҖВңThrough me you pass into the city of woe:
Through me you pass into eternal pain:
Through me among the people lost for aye.
Justice the founder of my fabric movГўВҖВҷd:
To rear me was the task of power divine,
Supremest wisdom, and primeval love.
Before me things create were none, save things
Eternal, and eternal I endure.

ГўВҖВңAll hope abandon ye who enter here.ГўВҖВқ

Such characters in colour dim I markГўВҖВҷd
Over a portalГўВҖВҷs lofty arch inscribГўВҖВҷd:
Whereat I thus: ГўВҖВңMaster, these words import
Hard meaning.ГўВҖВқ He as one preparГўВҖВҷd replied:
ГўВҖВңHere thou must all distrust behind thee leave;
Here be vile fear extinguishГўВҖВҷd. We are come
Where I have told thee we shall see the souls
To misery doomГўВҖВҷd, who intellectual good
Have lost.ГўВҖВқ And when his hand he had stretchГўВҖВҷd forth
To mine, with pleasant looks, whence I was cheerГўВҖВҷd,
Into that secret place he led me on.

Here sighs with lamentations and loud moans
Resounded through the air piercГўВҖВҷd by no star,
That eГўВҖВҷen I wept at entering. Various tongues,
Horrible languages, outcries of woe,
Accents of anger, voices deep and hoarse,
With hands together smote that swellГўВҖВҷd the sounds,
Made up a tumult, that for ever whirls
Round through that air with solid darkness stainГўВҖВҷd,
Like to the sand that in the whirlwind flies.

I then, with error yet encompassГўВҖВҷd, cried:
ГўВҖВңO master! What is this I hear? What race
Are these, who seem so overcome with woe?ГўВҖВқ

He thus to me: ГўВҖВңThis miserable fate
Suffer the wretched souls of those, who livГўВҖВҷd
Without or praise or blame, with that ill band
Of angels mixГўВҖВҷd, who nor rebellious provГўВҖВҷd
Nor yet were true to God, but for themselves
Were only. From his bounds Heaven drove them forth,
Not to impair his lustre, nor the depth
Of Hell receives them, lest thГўВҖВҷ accursed tribe
Should glory thence with exultation vain.ГўВҖВқ

I then: ГўВҖВңMaster! what doth aggrieve them thus,
That they lament so loud?ГўВҖВқ He straight replied:
ГўВҖВңThat will I tell thee briefly. These of death
No hope may entertain: and their blind life
So meanly passes, that all other lots
They envy. Fame of them the world hath none,
Nor suffers; mercy and justice scorn them both.
Speak not of them, but look, and pass them by.ГўВҖВқ

And I, who straightway lookГўВҖВҷd, beheld a flag,
Which whirling ran around so rapidly,
That it no pause obtainГўВҖВҷd: and following came
Such a long train of spirits, I should neГўВҖВҷer
Have thought, that death so many had despoilГўВҖВҷd.

When some of these I recognizГўВҖВҷd, I saw
And knew the shade of him, who to base fear
Yielding, abjurГўВҖВҷd his high estate. Forthwith
I understood for certain this the tribe
Of those ill spirits both to God displeasing
And to his foes. These wretches, who neГўВҖВҷer lived,
Went on in nakedness, and sorely stung
By wasps and hornets, which bedewГўВҖВҷd their cheeks
With blood, that mixГўВҖВҷd with tears droppГўВҖВҷd to their feet,
And by disgustful worms was gatherГўВҖВҷd there.

Then looking farther onwards I beheld
A throng upon the shore of a great stream:
Whereat I thus: ГўВҖВңSir! grant me now to know
Whom here we view, and whence impellГўВҖВҷd they seem
So eager to pass oГўВҖВҷer, as I discern
Through the blear light?ГўВҖВқ He thus to me in few:
ГўВҖВңThis shalt thou know, soon as our steps arrive
Beside the woeful tide of Acheron.ГўВҖВқ

Then with eyes downward cast and fillГўВҖВҷd with shame,
Fearing my words offensive to his ear,
Till we had reachГўВҖВҷd the river, I from speech
AbstainГўВҖВҷd. And lo! toward us in a bark
Comes on an old man hoary white with eld,

Crying, ГўВҖВңWoe to you wicked spirits! hope not
Ever to see the sky again. I come
To take you to the other shore across,
Into eternal darkness, there to dwell
In fierce heat and in ice. And thou, who there
Standest, live spirit! get thee hence, and leave
These who are dead.ГўВҖВқ But soon as he beheld
I left them not, ГўВҖВңBy other way,ГўВҖВқ said he,
ГўВҖВңBy other haven shalt thou come to shore,
Not by this passage; thee a nimbler boat
Must carry.ГўВҖВқ Then to him thus spake my guide:
ГўВҖВңCharon! thyself torment not: so ГўВҖВҷt is willГўВҖВҷd,
Where will and power are one: ask thou no more.ГўВҖВқ

Straightway in silence fell the shaggy cheeks
Of him the boatman oГўВҖВҷer the livid lake,
Around whose eyes glarГўВҖВҷd wheeling flames. Meanwhile
Those spirits, faint and naked, color changГўВҖВҷd,
And gnashГўВҖВҷd their teeth, soon as the cruel words
They heard. God and their parents they blasphemГўВҖВҷd,
The human kind, the place, the time, and seed
That did engender them and give them birth.

Then all together sorely wailing drew
To the cursГўВҖВҷd strand, that every man must pass
Who fears not God. Charon, demoniac form,
With eyes of burning coal, collects them all,
BeckГўВҖВҷning, and each, that lingers, with his oar
Strikes. As fall off the light autumnal leaves,
One still another following, till the bough
Strews all its honours on the earth beneath;

EГўВҖВҷen in like manner AdamГўВҖВҷs evil brood
Cast themselves one by one down from the shore,
Each at a beck, as falcon at his call.

Thus go they over through the umberГўВҖВҷd wave,
And ever they on the opposing bank
Be landed, on this side another throng
Still gathers. ГўВҖВңSon,ГўВҖВқ thus spake the courteous guide,
ГўВҖВңThose, who die subject to the wrath of God,
All here together come from every clime,
And to oГўВҖВҷerpass the river are not loth:
For so heavenГўВҖВҷs justice goads them on, that fear
Is turnГўВҖВҷd into desire. Hence neГўВҖВҷer hath past
Good spirit. If of thee Charon complain,
Now mayst thou know the import of his words.ГўВҖВқ

This said, the gloomy region trembling shook
So terribly, that yet with clammy dews
Fear chills my brow. The sad earth gave a blast,
That, lightening, shot forth a vermilion flame,
Which all my senses conquerГўВҖВҷd quite, and I
Down droppГўВҖВҷd, as one with sudden slumber seizГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO IV


Broke the deep slumber in my brain a crash
Of heavy thunder, that I shook myself,
As one by main force rousГўВҖВҷd. Risen upright,
My rested eyes I movГўВҖВҷd around, and searchГўВҖВҷd
With fixed ken to know what place it was,
Wherein I stood. For certain on the brink
I found me of the lamentable vale,
The dread abyss, that joins a thundГўВҖВҷrous sound
Of plaints innumerable. Dark and deep,
And thick with clouds oГўВҖВҷerspread, mine eye in vain
ExplorГўВҖВҷd its bottom, nor could aught discern.

ГўВҖВңNow let us to the blind world there beneath
Descend;ГўВҖВқ the bard began all pale of look:
ГўВҖВңI go the first, and thou shalt follow next.ГўВҖВқ

Then I his alterГўВҖВҷd hue perceiving, thus:
ГўВҖВңHow may I speed, if thou yieldest to dread,
Who still art wont to comfort me in doubt?ГўВҖВқ

He then: ГўВҖВңThe anguish of that race below
With pity stains my cheek, which thou for fear
Mistakest. Let us on. Our length of way
Urges to haste.ГўВҖВқ Onward, this said, he movГўВҖВҷd;
And entГўВҖВҷring led me with him on the bounds
Of the first circle, that surrounds thГўВҖВҷ abyss.
Here, as mine ear could note, no plaint was heard
Except of sighs, that made thГўВҖВҷ eternal air
Tremble, not causГўВҖВҷd by tortures, but from grief
Felt by those multitudes, many and vast,
Of men, women, and infants. Then to me
The gentle guide: ГўВҖВңInquirГўВҖВҷst thou not what spirits
Are these, which thou beholdest? Ere thou pass
Farther, I would thou know, that these of sin
Were blameless; and if aught they merited,
It profits not, since baptism was not theirs,
The portal to thy faith. If they before
The Gospel livГўВҖВҷd, they servГўВҖВҷd not God aright;
And among such am I. For these defects,
And for no other evil, we are lost;

ГўВҖВңOnly so far afflicted, that we live
Desiring without hope.ГўВҖВқ So grief assailГўВҖВҷd
My heart at hearing this, for well I knew
Suspended in that Limbo many a soul
Of mighty worth. ГўВҖВңO tell me, sire reverГўВҖВҷd!
Tell me, my master!ГўВҖВқ I began through wish
Of full assurance in that holy faith,
Which vanquishes all error; ГўВҖВңsay, did eГўВҖВҷer
Any, or through his own or otherГўВҖВҷs merit,
Come forth from thence, whom afterward was blest?ГўВҖВқ

Piercing the secret purport of my speech,
He answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңI was new to that estate,
When I beheld a puissant one arrive
Amongst us, with victorious trophy crownГўВҖВҷd.
He forth the shade of our first parent drew,
Abel his child, and Noah righteous man,
Of Moses lawgiver for faith approvГўВҖВҷd,
Of patriarch Abraham, and David king,
Israel with his sire and with his sons,
Nor without Rachel whom so hard he won,
And others many more, whom he to bliss
Exalted. Before these, be thou assurГўВҖВҷd,
No spirit of human kind was ever savГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

We, while he spake, ceasГўВҖВҷd not our onward road,
Still passing through the wood; for so I name
Those spirits thick beset. We were not far
On this side from the summit, when I kennГўВҖВҷd
A flame, that oГўВҖВҷer the darkenГўВҖВҷd hemisphere
Prevailing shinГўВҖВҷd. Yet we a little space
Were distant, not so far but I in part
DiscoverГўВҖВҷd, that a tribe in honour high
That place possessГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңO thou, who every art
And science valuГўВҖВҷst! who are these, that boast
Such honour, separate from all the rest?ГўВҖВқ

He answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңThe renown of their great names
That echoes through your world above, acquires
Favour in heaven, which holds them thus advancГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ
Meantime a voice I heard: ГўВҖВңHonour the bard
Sublime! his shade returns that left us late!ГўВҖВқ
No sooner ceasГўВҖВҷd the sound, than I beheld
Four mighty spirits toward us bend their steps,
Of semblance neither sorrowful nor glad.

When thus my master kind began: ГўВҖВңMark him,
Who in his right hand bears that falchion keen,
The other three preceding, as their lord.
This is that Homer, of all bards supreme:
Flaccus the next in satireГўВҖВҷs vein excelling;
The third is Naso; Lucan is the last.
Because they all that appellation own,
With which the voice singly accosted me,
Honouring they greet me thus, and well they judge.ГўВҖВқ

So I beheld united the bright school
Of him the monarch of sublimest song,
That oГўВҖВҷer the others like an eagle soars.
When they together short discourse had held,
They turnГўВҖВҷd to me, with salutation kind
BeckГўВҖВҷning me; at the which my master smilГўВҖВҷd:
Nor was this all; but greater honour still
They gave me, for they made me of their tribe;
And I was sixth amid so learnГўВҖВҷd a band.

Far as the luminous beacon on we passГўВҖВҷd
Speaking of matters, then befitting well
To speak, now fitter left untold. At foot
Of a magnificent castle we arrivГўВҖВҷd,
Seven times with lofty walls begirt, and round
Defended by a pleasant stream. OГўВҖВҷer this
As oГўВҖВҷer dry land we passГўВҖВҷd. Next through seven gates
I with those sages enterГўВҖВҷd, and we came
Into a mead with lively verdure fresh.

There dwelt a race, who slow their eyes around
Majestically movГўВҖВҷd, and in their port
Bore eminent authority; they spake
Seldom, but all their words were tuneful sweet.

We to one side retirГўВҖВҷd, into a place
Open and bright and lofty, whence each one
Stood manifest to view. Incontinent
There on the green enamel of the plain
Were shown me the great spirits, by whose sight
I am exalted in my own esteem.

Electra there I saw accompanied
By many, among whom Hector I knew,
AnchisesГўВҖВҷ pious son, and with hawkГўВҖВҷs eye
Caesar all armГўВҖВҷd, and by Camilla there
Penthesilea. On the other side
Old King Latinus, seated by his child
Lavinia, and that Brutus I beheld,
Who Tarquin chasГўВҖВҷd, Lucretia, CatoГўВҖВҷs wife
Marcia, with Julia and Cornelia there;
And sole apart retirГўВҖВҷd, the Soldan fierce.

Then when a little more I raisГўВҖВҷd my brow,
I spied the master of the sapient throng,
Seated amid the philosophic train.
Him all admire, all pay him revГўВҖВҷrence due.
There Socrates and Plato both I markГўВҖВҷd,
Nearest to him in rank; Democritus,
Who sets the world at chance, Diogenes,
With Heraclitus, and Empedocles,
And Anaxagoras, and Thales sage,
Zeno, and Dioscorides well read
In natureГўВҖВҷs secret lore. Orpheus I markГўВҖВҷd
And Linus, Tully and moral Seneca,
Euclid and Ptolemy, Hippocrates,
Galenus, Avicen, and him who made
That commentary vast, Averroes.

Of all to speak at full were vain attempt;
For my wide theme so urges, that ofttimes
My words fall short of what bechancГўВҖВҷd. In two
The six associates part. Another way
My sage guide leads me, from that air serene,
Into a climate ever vexГўВҖВҷd with storms:
And to a part I come where no light shines.




CANTO V


From the first circle I descended thus
Down to the second, which, a lesser space
Embracing, so much more of grief contains
Provoking bitter moans. There, Minos stands
Grinning with ghastly feature: he, of all
Who enter, strict examining the crimes,

Gives sentence, and dismisses them beneath,
According as he foldeth him around:
For when before him comes thГўВҖВҷ ill fated soul,
It all confesses; and that judge severe
Of sins, considering what place in hell
Suits the transgression, with his tail so oft
Himself encircles, as degrees beneath
He dooms it to descend. Before him stand
Always a numГўВҖВҷrous throng; and in his turn
Each one to judgment passing, speaks, and hears
His fate, thence downward to his dwelling hurlГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңO thou! who to this residence of woe
Approachest?ГўВҖВқ when he saw me coming, cried
Minos, relinquishing his dread employ,
ГўВҖВңLook how thou enter here; beware in whom
Thou place thy trust; let not the entrance broad
Deceive thee to thy harm.ГўВҖВқ To him my guide:
ГўВҖВңWherefore exclaimest? Hinder not his way
By destiny appointed; so ГўВҖВҷtis willГўВҖВҷd
Where will and power are one. Ask thou no more.ГўВҖВқ

Now ГўВҖВҷgin the rueful wailings to be heard.
Now am I come where many a plaining voice
Smites on mine ear. Into a place I came
Where light was silent all. Bellowing there groanГўВҖВҷd
A noise as of a sea in tempest torn
By warring winds. The stormy blast of hell
With restless fury drives the spirits on
WhirlГўВҖВҷd round and dashГўВҖВҷd amain with sore annoy.

When they arrive before the ruinous sweep,
There shrieks are heard, there lamentations, moans,
And blasphemies ГўВҖВҷgainst the good Power in heaven.

I understood that to this torment sad
The carnal sinners are condemnГўВҖВҷd, in whom
Reason by lust is swayГўВҖВҷd. As in large troops
And multitudinous, when winter reigns,
The starlings on their wings are borne abroad;
So bears the tyrannous gust those evil souls.
On this side and on that, above, below,
It drives them: hope of rest to solace them
Is none, nor eГўВҖВҷen of milder pang. As cranes,
Chanting their dolГўВҖВҷrous notes, traverse the sky,
StretchГўВҖВҷd out in long array: so I beheld
Spirits, who came loud wailing, hurried on
By their dire doom. Then I: ГўВҖВңInstructor! who
Are these, by the black air so scourgГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңThe first
ГўВҖВҷMong those, of whom thou questionГўВҖВҷst,ГўВҖВқ he replied,
ГўВҖВңOГўВҖВҷer many tongues was empress. She in vice
Of luxury was so shameless, that she made
Liking be lawful by promulgГўВҖВҷd decree,
To clear the blame she had herself incurrГўВҖВҷd.
This is Semiramis, of whom ГўВҖВҷtis writ,
That she succeeded Ninus her espousГўВҖВҷd;
And held the land, which now the Soldan rules.
The next in amorous fury slew herself,
And to SicheusГўВҖВҷ ashes broke her faith:
Then follows Cleopatra, lustful queen.ГўВҖВқ

There markГўВҖВҷd I Helen, for whose sake so long
The time was fraught with evil; there the great
Achilles, who with love fought to the end.
Paris I saw, and Tristan; and beside
A thousand more he showГўВҖВҷd me, and by name
Pointed them out, whom love bereavГўВҖВҷd of life.

When I had heard my sage instructor name
Those dames and knights of antique days, oГўВҖВҷerpowerГўВҖВҷd
By pity, well-nigh in amaze my mind
Was lost; and I began: ГўВҖВңBard! willingly
I would address those two together coming,
Which seem so light before the wind.ГўВҖВқ He thus:
ГўВҖВңNote thou, when nearer they to us approach.

ГўВҖВңThen by that love which carries them along,
Entreat; and they will come.ГўВҖВқ Soon as the wind
SwayГўВҖВҷd them toward us, I thus framГўВҖВҷd my speech:
ГўВҖВңO wearied spirits! come, and hold discourse
With us, if by none else restrainГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ As doves
By fond desire invited, on wide wings
And firm, to their sweet nest returning home,
Cleave the air, wafted by their will along;
Thus issuГўВҖВҷd from that troop, where Dido ranks,
They through the ill air speeding; with such force
My cry prevailГўВҖВҷd by strong affection urgГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңO gracious creature and benign! who goГўВҖВҷst
Visiting, through this element obscure,
Us, who the world with bloody stain imbruГўВҖВҷd;
If for a friend the King of all we ownГўВҖВҷd,
Our prayГўВҖВҷr to him should for thy peace arise,
Since thou hast pity on our evil plight.
Of whatsoeГўВҖВҷer to hear or to discourse
It pleases thee, that will we hear, of that
Freely with thee discourse, while eГўВҖВҷer the wind,
As now, is mute. The land, that gave me birth,
Is situate on the coast, where Po descends
To rest in ocean with his sequent streams.

ГўВҖВңLove, that in gentle heart is quickly learnt,
Entangled him by that fair form, from me
TaГўВҖВҷen in such cruel sort, as grieves me still:
Love, that denial takes from none belovГўВҖВҷd,
Caught me with pleasing him so passing well,
That, as thou seeГўВҖВҷst, he yet deserts me not.

ГўВҖВңLove brought us to one death: Caina waits
The soul, who spilt our life.ГўВҖВқ Such were their words;
At hearing which downward I bent my looks,
And held them there so long, that the bard cried:
ГўВҖВңWhat art thou pondГўВҖВҷring?ГўВҖВқ I in answer thus:
ГўВҖВңAlas! by what sweet thoughts, what fond desire
Must they at length to that ill pass have reachГўВҖВҷd!ГўВҖВқ

Then turning, I to them my speech addressГўВҖВҷd.
And thus began: ГўВҖВңFrancesca! your sad fate
Even to tears my grief and pity moves.
But tell me; in the time of your sweet sighs,
By what, and how love granted, that ye knew
Your yet uncertain wishes?ГўВҖВқ She replied:
ГўВҖВңNo greater grief than to remember days
Of joy, when misГўВҖВҷry is at hand! That kens
Thy learnГўВҖВҷd instructor. Yet so eagerly
If thou art bent to know the primal root,
From whence our love gat being, I will do,
As one, who weeps and tells his tale. One day
For our delight we read of Lancelot,
How him love thrallГўВҖВҷd. Alone we were, and no
Suspicion near us. Ofttimes by that reading
Our eyes were drawn together, and the hue
Fled from our alterГўВҖВҷd cheek. But at one point
Alone we fell. When of that smile we read,
The wished smile, rapturously kissГўВҖВҷd
By one so deep in love, then he, who neГўВҖВҷer
From me shall separate, at once my lips
All trembling kissГўВҖВҷd. The book and writer both
Were loveГўВҖВҷs purveyors. In its leaves that day
We read no more.ГўВҖВқ While thus one spirit spake,
The other wailГўВҖВҷd so sorely, that heartstruck
I through compassion fainting, seemГўВҖВҷd not far
From death, and like a corpse fell to the ground.




CANTO VI


My sense reviving, that erewhile had droopГўВҖВҷd
With pity for the kindred shades, whence grief
OГўВҖВҷercame me wholly, straight around I see
New torments, new tormented souls, which way
SoeГўВҖВҷer I move, or turn, or bend my sight.
In the third circle I arrive, of showГўВҖВҷrs
Ceaseless, accursed, heavy, and cold, unchangГўВҖВҷd
For ever, both in kind and in degree.
Large hail, discolourГўВҖВҷd water, sleety flaw
Through the dun midnight air streamГўВҖВҷd down amain:
Stank all the land whereon that tempest fell.

Cerberus, cruel monster, fierce and strange,
Through his wide threefold throat barks as a dog
Over the multitude immersГўВҖВҷd beneath.
His eyes glare crimson, black his unctuous beard,
His belly large, and clawГўВҖВҷd the hands, with which
He tears the spirits, flays them, and their limbs
Piecemeal disparts. Howling there spread, as curs,
Under the rainy deluge, with one side
The other screening, oft they roll them round,
A wretched, godless crew. When that great worm
Descried us, savage Cerberus, he opГўВҖВҷd
His jaws, and the fangs showГўВҖВҷd us; not a limb
Of him but trembled. Then my guide, his palms
Expanding on the ground, thence filled with earth
RaisГўВҖВҷd them, and cast it in his ravenous maw.

EГўВҖВҷen as a dog, that yelling bays for food
His keeper, when the morsel comes, lets fall
His fury, bent alone with eager haste
To swallow it; so droppГўВҖВҷd the loathsome cheeks
Of demon Cerberus, who thundГўВҖВҷring stuns
The spirits, that they for deafness wish in vain.

We, oГўВҖВҷer the shades thrown prostrate by the brunt
Of the heavy tempest passing, set our feet
Upon their emptiness, that substance seemГўВҖВҷd.

They all along the earth extended lay
Save one, that sudden raisГўВҖВҷd himself to sit,
Soon as that way he saw us pass. ГўВҖВңO thou!ГўВҖВқ
He cried, ГўВҖВңwho through the infernal shades art led,
Own, if again thou knowГўВҖВҷst me. Thou wast framГўВҖВҷd
Or ere my frame was broken.ГўВҖВқ I replied:
ГўВҖВңThe anguish thou endurГўВҖВҷst perchance so takes
Thy form from my remembrance, that it seems
As if I saw thee never. But inform
Me who thou art, that in a place so sad
Art set, and in such torment, that although
Other be greater, more disgustful none
Can be imaginГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ He in answer thus:

ГўВҖВңThy city heapГўВҖВҷd with envy to the brim,
Ay that the measure overflows its bounds,
Held me in brighter days. Ye citizens
Were wont to name me Ciacco. For the sin
Of gluttГўВҖВҷny, damned vice, beneath this rain,
EГўВҖВҷen as thou seeГўВҖВҷst, I with fatigue am worn;
Nor I sole spirit in this woe: all these
Have by like crime incurrГўВҖВҷd like punishment.ГўВҖВқ

No more he said, and I my speech resumГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңCiacco! thy dire affliction grieves me much,
Even to tears. But tell me, if thou knowГўВҖВҷst,
What shall at length befall the citizens
Of the divided city; whether any just one
Inhabit there: and tell me of the cause,
Whence jarring discord hath assailГўВҖВҷd it thus?ГўВҖВқ

He then: ГўВҖВңAfter long striving they will come
To blood; and the wild party from the woods
Will chase the other with much injury forth.
Then it behoves, that this must fall, within
Three solar circles; and the other rise
By borrowГўВҖВҷd force of one, who under shore
Now rests. It shall a long space hold aloof
Its forehead, keeping under heavy weight
The other oppressГўВҖВҷd, indignant at the load,
And grieving sore. The just are two in number,
But they neglected. AvГўВҖВҷrice, envy, pride,
Three fatal sparks, have set the hearts of all
On fire.ГўВҖВқ Here ceasГўВҖВҷd the lamentable sound;
And I continuГўВҖВҷd thus: ГўВҖВңStill would I learn
More from thee, farther parley still entreat.
Of Farinata and Tegghiaio say,
They who so well deservГўВҖВҷd, of Giacopo,
Arrigo, Mosca, and the rest, who bent
Their minds on working good. Oh! tell me where
They bide, and to their knowledge let me come.
For I am pressГўВҖВҷd with keen desire to hear,
If heavenГўВҖВҷs sweet cup or poisonous drug of hell
Be to their lip assignГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ He answerГўВҖВҷd straight:
ГўВҖВңThese are yet blacker spirits. Various crimes
Have sunk them deeper in the dark abyss.
If thou so far descendest, thou mayst see them.
But to the pleasant world when thou returnГўВҖВҷst,
Of me make mention, I entreat thee, there.
No more I tell thee, answer thee no more.ГўВҖВқ

This said, his fixed eyes he turnГўВҖВҷd askance,
A little eyГўВҖВҷd me, then bent down his head,
And ГўВҖВҷmidst his blind companions with it fell.

When thus my guide: ГўВҖВңNo more his bed he leaves,
Ere the last angel-trumpet blow. The Power
Adverse to these shall then in glory come,
Each one forthwith to his sad tomb repair,
Resume his fleshly vesture and his form,
And hear the eternal doom re-echoing rend
The vault.ГўВҖВқ So passГўВҖВҷd we through that mixture foul
Of spirits and rain, with tardy steps; meanwhile
Touching, though slightly, on the life to come.
For thus I questionГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңShall these tortures, Sir!
When the great sentence passes, be increasГўВҖВҷd,
Or mitigated, or as now severe?ГўВҖВқ

He then: ГўВҖВңConsult thy knowledge; that decides
That as each thing to more perfection grows,
It feels more sensibly both good and pain.
Though neГўВҖВҷer to true perfection may arrive
This race accursГўВҖВҷd, yet nearer then than now
They shall approach it.ГўВҖВқ Compassing that path
Circuitous we journeyed, and discourse
Much more than I relate between us passГўВҖВҷd:
Till at the point, where the steps led below,
ArrivГўВҖВҷd, there Plutus, the great foe, we found.




CANTO VII


ГўВҖВңAh me! O Satan! Satan!ГўВҖВқ loud exclaimГўВҖВҷd
Plutus, in accent hoarse of wild alarm:
And the kind sage, whom no event surprisГўВҖВҷd,
To comfort me thus spake: ГўВҖВңLet not thy fear
Harm thee, for power in him, be sure, is none
To hinder down this rock thy safe descent.ГўВҖВқ
Then to that sworn lip turning, ГўВҖВңPeace!ГўВҖВқ he cried,

ГўВҖВңCursГўВҖВҷd wolf! thy fury inward on thyself
Prey, and consume thee! Through the dark profound
Not without cause he passes. So ГўВҖВҷt is willГўВҖВҷd
On high, there where the great Archangel pourГўВҖВҷd
HeavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs vengeance on the first adulterer proud.ГўВҖВқ

As sails full spread and bellying with the wind
Drop suddenly collapsГўВҖВҷd, if the mast split;
So to the ground down droppГўВҖВҷd the cruel fiend.

Thus we, descending to the fourth steep ledge,
GainГўВҖВҷd on the dismal shore, that all the woe
Hems in of all the universe. Ah me!
Almighty Justice! in what store thou heapГўВҖВҷst
New pains, new troubles, as I here beheld!
Wherefore doth fault of ours bring us to this?

EГўВҖВҷen as a billow, on Charybdis rising,
Against encounterГўВҖВҷd billow dashing breaks;
Such is the dance this wretched race must lead,
Whom more than elsewhere numerous here I found,
From one side and the other, with loud voice,
Both rollГўВҖВҷd on weights by main forge of their breasts,
Then smote together, and each one forthwith
RollГўВҖВҷd them back voluble, turning again,
Exclaiming these, ГўВҖВңWhy holdest thou so fast?ГўВҖВқ
Those answering, ГўВҖВңAnd why castest thou away?ГўВҖВқ
So still repeating their despiteful song,
They to the opposite point on either hand
TraversГўВҖВҷd the horrid circle: then arrivГўВҖВҷd,
Both turnГўВҖВҷd them round, and through the middle space
Conflicting met again. At sight whereof
I, stung with grief, thus spake: ГўВҖВңO say, my guide!
What race is this? Were these, whose heads are shorn,
On our left hand, all sepГўВҖВҷrate to the church?ГўВҖВқ

He straight replied: ГўВҖВңIn their first life these all
In mind were so distorted, that they made,
According to due measure, of their wealth,
No use. This clearly from their words collect,
Which they howl forth, at each extremity
Arriving of the circle, where their crime
Contrary in kind disparts them. To the church
Were separate those, that with no hairy cowls
Are crownГўВҖВҷd, both Popes and Cardinals, oГўВҖВҷer whom
AvГўВҖВҷrice dominion absolute maintains.ГўВҖВқ

I then: ГўВҖВңMid such as these some needs must be,
Whom I shall recognize, that with the blot
Of these foul sins were stainГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ He answering thus:
ГўВҖВңVain thought conceivГўВҖВҷst thou. That ignoble life,
Which made them vile before, now makes them dark,
And to all knowledge indiscernible.
Forever they shall meet in this rude shock:
These from the tomb with clenched grasp shall rise,
Those with close-shaven locks. That ill they gave,
And ill they kept, hath of the beauteous world
DeprivГўВҖВҷd, and set them at this strife, which needs
No labourГўВҖВҷd phrase of mine to set it off.
Now mayГўВҖВҷst thou see, my son! how brief, how vain,
The goods committed into fortuneГўВҖВҷs hands,
For which the human race keep such a coil!
Not all the gold, that is beneath the moon,
Or ever hath been, of these toil-worn souls
Might purchase rest for one.ГўВҖВқ I thus rejoinГўВҖВҷd:

ГўВҖВңMy guide! of thee this also would I learn;
This fortune, that thou speakГўВҖВҷst of, what it is,
Whose talons grasp the blessings of the world?ГўВҖВқ

He thus: ГўВҖВңO beings blind! what ignorance
Besets you? Now my judgment hear and mark.
He, whose transcendent wisdom passes all,
The heavens creating, gave them ruling powers
To guide them, so that each part shines to each,
Their light in equal distribution pourГўВҖВҷd.
By similar appointment he ordainГўВҖВҷd
Over the worldГўВҖВҷs bright images to rule
Superintendence of a guiding hand
And general minister, which at due time
May change the empty vantages of life
From race to race, from one to otherГўВҖВҷs blood,
Beyond prevention of manГўВҖВҷs wisest care:
Wherefore one nation rises into sway,
Another languishes, eГўВҖВҷen as her will
Decrees, from us concealГўВҖВҷd, as in the grass
The serpent train. Against her nought avails
Your utmost wisdom. She with foresight plans,
Judges, and carries on her reign, as theirs
The other powers divine. Her changes know
None intermission: by necessity
She is made swift, so frequent come who claim
Succession in her favours. This is she,
So execrated eГўВҖВҷen by those, whose debt
To her is rather praise; they wrongfully
With blame requite her, and with evil word;
But she is blessed, and for that recks not:
Amidst the other primal beings glad
Rolls on her sphere, and in her bliss exults.
Now on our way pass we, to heavier woe
Descending: for each star is falling now,
That mounted at our entrance, and forbids
Too long our tarrying.ГўВҖВқ We the circle crossГўВҖВҷd
To the next steep, arriving at a well,
That boiling pours itself down to a foss
SluicГўВҖВҷd from its source. Far murkier was the wave
Than sablest grain: and we in company
Of the inky waters, journeying by their side,
EnterГўВҖВҷd, though by a different track, beneath.
Into a lake, the Stygian namГўВҖВҷd, expands
The dismal stream, when it hath reachГўВҖВҷd the foot
Of the grey witherГўВҖВҷd cliffs. Intent I stood
To gaze, and in the marish sunk descried
A miry tribe, all naked, and with looks
BetokГўВҖВҷning rage. They with their hands alone
Struck not, but with the head, the breast, the feet,
Cutting each other piecemeal with their fangs.

The good instructor spake; ГўВҖВңNow seest thou, son!
The souls of those, whom anger overcame.
This too for certain know, that underneath
The water dwells a multitude, whose sighs
Into these bubbles make the surface heave,
As thine eye tells thee wheresoeГўВҖВҷer it turn.
FixГўВҖВҷd in the slime they say: ГўВҖВҳSad once were we
In the sweet air made gladsome by the sun,
Carrying a foul and lazy mist within:
Now in these murky settlings are we sad.ГўВҖВҷ
Such dolorous strain they gurgle in their throats.
But word distinct can utter none.ГўВҖВқ Our route
Thus compassГўВҖВҷd we, a segment widely stretchГўВҖВҷd
Between the dry embankment, and the core
Of the loathГўВҖВҷd pool, turning meanwhile our eyes
Downward on those who gulpГўВҖВҷd its muddy lees;
Nor stoppГўВҖВҷd, till to a towerГўВҖВҷs low base we came.




CANTO VIII


My theme pursuing, I relate that ere
We reachГўВҖВҷd the lofty turretГўВҖВҷs base, our eyes
Its height ascended, where two cressets hung
We markГўВҖВҷd, and from afar another light
Return the signal, so remote, that scarce
The eye could catch its beam. I turning round
To the deep source of knowledge, thus inquirГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңSay what this means? and what that other light
In answer set? what agency doth this?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere on the filthy waters,ГўВҖВқ he replied,
ГўВҖВңEГўВҖВҷen now what next awaits us mayst thou see,
If the marsh-genderГўВҖВҷd fog conceal it not.ГўВҖВқ

Never was arrow from the cord dismissГўВҖВҷd,
That ran its way so nimbly through the air,
As a small bark, that through the waves I spied
Toward us coming, under the sole sway
Of one that ferried it, who cried aloud:
ГўВҖВңArt thou arrivГўВҖВҷd, fell spirit?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңPhlegyas, Phlegyas,
This time thou criest in vain,ГўВҖВқ my lord replied;
ГўВҖВңNo longer shalt thou have us, but while oГўВҖВҷer
The slimy pool we pass.ГўВҖВқ As one who hears
Of some great wrong he hath sustainГўВҖВҷd, whereat
Inly he pines; so Phlegyas inly pinГўВҖВҷd
In his fierce ire. My guide descending steppГўВҖВҷd
Into the skiff, and bade me enter next
Close at his side; nor till my entrance seemГўВҖВҷd
The vessel freighted. Soon as both embarkГўВҖВҷd,
Cutting the waves, goes on the ancient prow,
More deeply than with others it is wont.

While we our course oГўВҖВҷer the dead channel held.
One drenchГўВҖВҷd in mire before me came, and said;
ГўВҖВңWho art thou, that thou comest ere thine hour?ГўВҖВқ

I answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңThough I come, I tarry not;
But who art thou, that art become so foul?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOne, as thou seest, who mourn:ГўВҖВқ he straight replied.

To which I thus: ГўВҖВңIn mourning and in woe,
CursГўВҖВҷd spirit! tarry thou. I know thee well,
EГўВҖВҷen thus in filth disguisГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ Then stretchГўВҖВҷd he forth
Hands to the bark; whereof my teacher sage
Aware, thrusting him back: ГўВҖВңAway! down there,

ГўВҖВңTo the other dogs!ГўВҖВқ then, with his arms my neck
Encircling, kissГўВҖВҷd my cheek, and spake: ГўВҖВңO soul
Justly disdainful! blest was she in whom
Thou was conceivГўВҖВҷd! He in the world was one
For arrogance noted; to his memory
No virtue lends its lustre; even so
Here is his shadow furious. There above
How many now hold themselves mighty kings
Who here like swine shall wallow in the mire,
Leaving behind them horrible dispraise!ГўВҖВқ

I then: ГўВҖВңMaster! him fain would I behold
WhelmГўВҖВҷd in these dregs, before we quit the lake.ГўВҖВқ

He thus: ГўВҖВңOr ever to thy view the shore
Be offerГўВҖВҷd, satisfied shall be that wish,
Which well deserves completion.ГўВҖВқ Scarce his words
Were ended, when I saw the miry tribes
Set on him with such violence, that yet
For that render I thanks to God and praise
ГўВҖВңTo Filippo Argenti:ГўВҖВқ cried they all:
And on himself the moody Florentine
TurnГўВҖВҷd his avenging fangs. Him here we left,
Nor speak I of him more. But on mine ear
Sudden a sound of lamentation smote,
Whereat mine eye unbarrГўВҖВҷd I sent abroad.

And thus the good instructor: ГўВҖВңNow, my son!
Draws near the city, that of Dis is namГўВҖВҷd,
With its grave denizens, a mighty throng.ГўВҖВқ

I thus: ГўВҖВңThe minarets already, Sir!
There certes in the valley I descry,
Gleaming vermilion, as if they from fire
Had issuГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ He replied: ГўВҖВңEternal fire,
That inward burns, shows them with ruddy flame
IllumГўВҖВҷd; as in this nether hell thou seest.ГўВҖВқ

We came within the fosses deep, that moat
This region comfortless. The walls appearГўВҖВҷd
As they were framГўВҖВҷd of iron. We had made
Wide circuit, ere a place we reachГўВҖВҷd, where loud
The mariner cried vehement: ГўВҖВңGo forth!
The entrance is here!ГўВҖВқ Upon the gates I spied
More than a thousand, who of old from heaven
Were hurlГўВҖВҷd. With ireful gestures, ГўВҖВңWho is this,ГўВҖВқ
They cried, ГўВҖВңthat without death first felt, goes through
The regions of the dead?ГўВҖВқ My sapient guide
Made sign that he for secret parley wishГўВҖВҷd;
Whereat their angry scorn abating, thus
They spake: ГўВҖВңCome thou alone; and let him go
Who hath so hardily enterГўВҖВҷd this realm.
Alone return he by his witless way;
If well he know it, let him prove. For thee,
Here shalt thou tarry, who through clime so dark
Hast been his escort.ГўВҖВқ Now bethink thee, reader!
What cheer was mine at sound of those cursГўВҖВҷd words.
I did believe I never should return.

ГўВҖВңO my lovГўВҖВҷd guide! who more than seven times
Security hast renderГўВҖВҷd me, and drawn
From peril deep, whereto I stood exposГўВҖВҷd,
Desert me not,ГўВҖВқ I cried, ГўВҖВңin this extreme.
And if our onward going be denied,
Together trace we back our steps with speed.ГўВҖВқ

My liege, who thither had conducted me,
Replied: ГўВҖВңFear not: for of our passage none
Hath power to disappoint us, by such high
Authority permitted. But do thou
Expect me here; meanwhile thy wearied spirit
Comfort, and feed with kindly hope, assurГўВҖВҷd
I will not leave thee in this lower world.ГўВҖВқ

This said, departs the sire benevolent,
And quits me. Hesitating I remain
At war ГўВҖВҷtwixt will and will not in my thoughts.

I could not hear what terms he offerГўВҖВҷd them,
But they conferrГўВҖВҷd not long, for all at once
To trial fled within. ClosГўВҖВҷd were the gates
By those our adversaries on the breast
Of my liege lord: excluded he returnГўВҖВҷd
To me with tardy steps. Upon the ground
His eyes were bent, and from his brow erasГўВҖВҷd
All confidence, while thus with sighs he spake:
ГўВҖВңWho hath denied me these abodes of woe?ГўВҖВқ
Then thus to me: ГўВҖВңThat I am angerГўВҖВҷd, think
No ground of terror: in this trial I
Shall vanquish, use what arts they may within
For hindrance. This their insolence, not new,
Erewhile at gate less secret they displayГўВҖВҷd,
Which still is without bolt; upon its arch
Thou sawГўВҖВҷst the deadly scroll: and even now
On this side of its entrance, down the steep,
Passing the circles, unescorted, comes
One whose strong might can open us this land.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO IX


The hue, which coward dread on my pale cheeks
Imprinted, when I saw my guide turn back,
ChasГўВҖВҷd that from his which newly they had worn,
And inwardly restrainГўВҖВҷd it. He, as one
Who listens, stood attentive: for his eye
Not far could lead him through the sable air,
And the thick-gathГўВҖВҷring cloud. ГўВҖВңIt yet behooves
We win this fightГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”thus he beganГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңif notГўВҖВ”
Such aid to us is offerГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВ”Oh, how long
Me seems it, ere the promisГўВҖВҷd help arrive!ГўВҖВқ

I noted, how the sequel of his words
ClokГўВҖВҷd their beginning; for the last he spake
Agreed not with the first. But not the less
My fear was at his saying; sith I drew
To import worse perchance, than that he held,
His mutilated speech. ГўВҖВңDoth ever any
Into this rueful concaveГўВҖВҷs extreme depth
Descend, out of the first degree, whose pain
Is deprivation merely of sweet hope?ГўВҖВқ

Thus I inquiring. ГўВҖВңRarely,ГўВҖВқ he replied,
ГўВҖВңIt chances, that among us any makes
This journey, which I wend. Erewhile ГўВҖВҷtis true
Once came I here beneath, conjurГўВҖВҷd by fell
Erictho, sorceress, who compellГўВҖВҷd the shades
Back to their bodies. No long space my flesh
Was naked of me, when within these walls
She made me enter, to draw forth a spirit
From out of JudasГўВҖВҷ circle. Lowest place
Is that of all, obscurest, and removГўВҖВҷd
Farthest from heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs all-circling orb. The road
Full well I know: thou therefore rest secure.
That lake, the noisome stench exhaling, round
The cityГўВҖВҷ of grief encompasses, which now
We may not enter without rage.ГўВҖВқ Yet more
He added: but I hold it not in mind,
For that mine eye toward the lofty tower
Had drawn me wholly, to its burning top.
Where in an instant I beheld uprisen
At once three hellish furies stainГўВҖВҷd with blood:
In limb and motion feminine they seemГўВҖВҷd;
Around them greenest hydras twisting rollГўВҖВҷd
Their volumes; adders and cerastes crept
Instead of hair, and their fierce temples bound.

He knowing well the miserable hags
Who tend the queen of endless woe, thus spake:

ГўВҖВңMark thou each dire Erinnys. To the left
This is Megaera; on the right hand she,
Who wails, Alecto; and Tisiphone
IГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ midst.ГўВҖВқ This said, in silence he remainГўВҖВҷd
Their breast they each one clawing tore; themselves
Smote with their palms, and such shrill clamour raisГўВҖВҷd,
That to the bard I clung, suspicion-bound.
ГўВҖВңHasten Medusa: so to adamant
Him shall we change;ГўВҖВқ all looking down exclaimГўВҖВҷd.
ГўВҖВңEГўВҖВҷen when by TheseusГўВҖВҷ might assailГўВҖВҷd, we took
No ill revenge.ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңTurn thyself round, and keep
Thy countГўВҖВҷnance hid; for if the Gorgon dire
Be shown, and thou shouldst view it, thy return
Upwards would be for ever lost.ГўВҖВқ This said,
Himself my gentle master turnГўВҖВҷd me round,
Nor trusted he my hands, but with his own
He also hid me. Ye of intellect
Sound and entire, mark well the lore concealГўВҖВҷd
Under close texture of the mystic strain!

And now there came oГўВҖВҷer the perturbed waves
Loud-crashing, terrible, a sound that made
Either shore tremble, as if of a wind
Impetuous, from conflicting vapours sprung,
That ГўВҖВҷgainst some forest driving all its might,
Plucks off the branches, beats them down and hurls
Afar; then onward passing proudly sweeps
Its whirlwind rage, while beasts and shepherds fly.

Mine eyes he loosГўВҖВҷd, and spake: ГўВҖВңAnd now direct
Thy visual nerve along that ancient foam,
There, thickest where the smoke ascends.ГўВҖВқ As frogs
Before their foe the serpent, through the wave
Ply swiftly all, till at the ground each one
Lies on a heap; more than a thousand spirits
DestroyГўВҖВҷd, so saw I fleeing before one
Who passГўВҖВҷd with unwet feet the Stygian sound.
He, from his face removing the gross air,
Oft his left hand forth stretchГўВҖВҷd, and seemГўВҖВҷd alone
By that annoyance wearied. I perceivГўВҖВҷd
That he was sent from heavГўВҖВҷn, and to my guide
TurnГўВҖВҷd me, who signal made that I should stand
Quiet, and bend to him. Ah me! how full
Of noble anger seemГўВҖВҷd he! To the gate
He came, and with his wand touchГўВҖВҷd it, whereat
Open without impediment it flew.

ГўВҖВңOutcasts of heavГўВҖВҷn! O abject race and scornГўВҖВҷd!ГўВҖВқ
Began he on the horrid grunsel standing,
ГўВҖВңWhence doth this wild excess of insolence
Lodge in you? wherefore kick you ГўВҖВҷgainst that will
NeГўВҖВҷer frustrate of its end, and which so oft
Hath laid on you enforcement of your pangs?
What profits at the fays to but the horn?
Your Cerberus, if ye remember, hence
Bears still, peelГўВҖВҷd of their hair, his throat and maw.ГўВҖВқ

This said, he turnГўВҖВҷd back oГўВҖВҷer the filthy way,
And syllable to us spake none, but wore
The semblance of a man by other care
Beset, and keenly pressГўВҖВҷd, than thought of him
Who in his presence stands. Then we our steps
Toward that territory movГўВҖВҷd, secure
After the hallowГўВҖВҷd words. We unopposГўВҖВҷd
There enterГўВҖВҷd; and my mind eager to learn
What state a fortress like to that might hold,
I soon as enterГўВҖВҷd throw mine eye around,
And see on every part wide-stretching space
Replete with bitter pain and torment ill.

As where Rhone stagnates on the plains of Arles,
Or as at Pola, near QuarnaroГўВҖВҷs gulf,
That closes Italy and laves her bounds,
The place is all thick spread with sepulchres;
So was it here, save what in horror here
ExcellГўВҖВҷd: for ГўВҖВҷmidst the graves were scattered flames,
Wherewith intensely all throughout they burnГўВҖВҷd,
That iron for no craft there hotter needs.

Their lids all hung suspended, and beneath
From them forth issuГўВҖВҷd lamentable moans,
Such as the sad and torturГўВҖВҷd well might raise.

I thus: ГўВҖВңMaster! say who are these, interrГўВҖВҷd
Within these vaults, of whom distinct we hear
The dolorous sighs?ГўВҖВқ He answer thus returnГўВҖВҷd:

ГўВҖВңThe arch-heretics are here, accompanied
By every sect their followers; and much more,
Than thou believest, tombs are freighted: like
With like is buried; and the monuments
Are different in degrees of heat.ГўВҖВқ This said,
He to the right hand turning, on we passГўВҖВҷd
Betwixt the afflicted and the ramparts high.




CANTO X


Now by a secret pathway we proceed,
Between the walls, that hem the region round,
And the tormented souls: my master first,
I close behind his steps. ГўВҖВңVirtue supreme!ГўВҖВқ
I thus began; ГўВҖВңwho through these ample orbs
In circuit leadГўВҖВҷst me, even as thou willГўВҖВҷst,
Speak thou, and satisfy my wish. May those,
Who lie within these sepulchres, be seen?
Already all the lids are raisГўВҖВҷd, and none
OГўВҖВҷer them keeps watch.ГўВҖВқ He thus in answer spake
ГўВҖВңThey shall be closed all, what-time they here
From Josaphat returnГўВҖВҷd shall come, and bring
Their bodies, which above they now have left.
The cemetery on this part obtain
With Epicurus all his followers,
Who with the body make the spirit die.
Here therefore satisfaction shall be soon
Both to the question askГўВҖВҷd, and to the wish,
Which thou concealГўВҖВҷst in silence.ГўВҖВқ I replied:
ГўВҖВңI keep not, guide belovГўВҖВҷd! from thee my heart
Secreted, but to shun vain length of words,
A lesson erewhile taught me by thyself.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO Tuscan! thou who through the city of fire
Alive art passing, so discreet of speech!
Here please thee stay awhile. Thy utterance
Declares the place of thy nativity
To be that noble land, with which perchance
I too severely dealt.ГўВҖВқ Sudden that sound
Forth issuГўВҖВҷd from a vault, whereat in fear
I somewhat closer to my leaderГўВҖВҷs side
Approaching, he thus spake: ГўВҖВңWhat dost thou? Turn.
Lo, Farinata, there! who hath himself
Uplifted: from his girdle upwards all
ExposГўВҖВҷd behold him.ГўВҖВқ On his face was mine
Already fixГўВҖВҷd; his breast and forehead there
Erecting, seemГўВҖВҷd as in high scorn he held
EГўВҖВҷen hell. Between the sepulchres to him
My guide thrust me with fearless hands and prompt,
This warning added: ГўВҖВңSee thy words be clear!ГўВҖВқ

He, soon as there I stood at the tombГўВҖВҷs foot,
EyГўВҖВҷd me a space, then in disdainful mood
AddressГўВҖВҷd me: ГўВҖВңSay, what ancestors were thine?ГўВҖВқ

I, willing to obey him, straight revealГўВҖВҷd
The whole, nor kept back aught: whence he, his brow
Somewhat uplifting, cried: ГўВҖВңFiercely were they
Adverse to me, my party, and the blood
From whence I sprang: twice therefore I abroad
ScatterГўВҖВҷd them.ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңThough drivГўВҖВҷn out, yet they each time
From all parts,ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd I, ГўВҖВңreturnГўВҖВҷd; an art
Which yours have shown, they are not skillГўВҖВҷd to learn.ГўВҖВқ

Then, peering forth from the unclosed jaw,
Rose from his side a shade, high as the chin,
Leaning, methought, upon its knees upraisГўВҖВҷd.
It lookГўВҖВҷd around, as eager to explore
If there were other with me; but perceiving
That fond imagination quenchГўВҖВҷd, with tears
Thus spake: ГўВҖВңIf thou through this blind prison goГўВҖВҷst.
Led by thy lofty genius and profound,
Where is my son? and wherefore not with thee?ГўВҖВқ

I straight replied: ГўВҖВңNot of myself I come,
By him, who there expects me, through this clime
Conducted, whom perchance Guido thy son
Had in contempt.ГўВҖВқ Already had his words
And mode of punishment read me his name,
Whence I so fully answerГўВҖВҷd. He at once
ExclaimГўВҖВҷd, up starting, ГўВҖВңHow! saidГўВҖВҷst thou he HAD?
No longer lives he? Strikes not on his eye
The blessed daylight?ГўВҖВқ Then of some delay
I made ere my reply aware, down fell
Supine, not after forth appearГўВҖВҷd he more.

Meanwhile the other, great of soul, near whom
I yet was stationГўВҖВҷd, changГўВҖВҷd not countГўВҖВҷnance stern,
Nor movГўВҖВҷd the neck, nor bent his ribbed side.
ГўВҖВңAnd if,ГўВҖВқ continuing the first discourse,
ГўВҖВңThey in this art,ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңsmall skill have shown,
That doth torment me more eГўВҖВҷen than this bed.
But not yet fifty times shall be relumГўВҖВҷd
Her aspect, who reigns here Queen of this realm,
Ere thou shalt know the full weight of that art.
So to the pleasant world mayst thou return,
As thou shalt tell me, why in all their laws,
Against my kin this people is so fell?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe slaughter and great havoc,ГўВҖВқ I replied,
ГўВҖВңThat colourГўВҖВҷd ArbiaГўВҖВҷs flood with crimson stainГўВҖВ”
To these impute, that in our hallowГўВҖВҷd dome
Such orisons ascend.ГўВҖВқ Sighing he shook
The head, then thus resumГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңIn that affray
I stood not singly, nor without just cause
Assuredly should with the rest have stirrГўВҖВҷd;
But singly there I stood, when by consent
Of all, Florence had to the ground been razГўВҖВҷd,
The one who openly forbad the deed.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo may thy lineage find at last repose,ГўВҖВқ
I thus adjurГўВҖВҷd him, ГўВҖВңas thou solve this knot,
Which now involves my mind. If right I hear,
Ye seem to view beforehand, that which time
Leads with him, of the present uninformГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWe view, as one who hath an evil sight,ГўВҖВқ
He answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңplainly, objects far remote:
So much of his large spendour yet imparts
The Almighty Ruler; but when they approach
Or actually exist, our intellect
Then wholly fails, nor of your human state
Except what others bring us know we aught.
Hence therefore mayst thou understand, that all
Our knowledge in that instant shall expire,
When on futurity the portals close.ГўВҖВқ

Then conscious of my fault, and by remorse
Smitten, I added thus: ГўВҖВңNow shalt thou say
To him there fallen, that his offspring still
Is to the living joinГўВҖВҷd; and bid him know,
That if from answer silent I abstainГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВҷTwas that my thought was occupied intent
Upon that error, which thy help hath solvГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

But now my master summoning me back
I heard, and with more eager haste besought
The spirit to inform me, who with him
Partook his lot. He answer thus returnГўВҖВҷd:

ГўВҖВңMore than a thousand with me here are laid
Within is Frederick, second of that name,
And the Lord Cardinal, and of the rest
I speak not.ГўВҖВқ He, this said, from sight withdrew.
But I my steps towards the ancient bard
Reverting, ruminated on the words
Betokening me such ill. Onward he movГўВҖВҷd,
And thus in going questionГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңWhence the amaze
That holds thy senses wrapt?ГўВҖВқ I satisfied
The inquiry, and the sage enjoinГўВҖВҷd me straight:
ГўВҖВңLet thy safe memory store what thou hast heard
To thee importing harm; and note thou this,ГўВҖВқ
With his raisГўВҖВҷd finger bidding me take heed,

ГўВҖВңWhen thou shalt stand before her gracious beam,
Whose bright eye all surveys, she of thy life
The future tenour will to thee unfold.ГўВҖВқ

Forthwith he to the left hand turnГўВҖВҷd his feet:
We left the wall, and towГўВҖВҷrds the middle space
Went by a path, that to a valley strikes;
Which eГўВҖВҷen thus high exhalГўВҖВҷd its noisome steam.




CANTO XI


Upon the utmost verge of a high bank,
By craggy rocks environГўВҖВҷd round, we came,
Where woes beneath more cruel yet were stowГўВҖВҷd:
And here to shun the horrible excess
Of fetid exhalation, upward cast
From the profound abyss, behind the lid
Of a great monument we stood retirГўВҖВҷd,

Whereon this scroll I markГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңI have in charge
Pope Anastasius, whom Photinus drew
From the right path.ГўВҖВ”Ere our descent behooves
We make delay, that somewhat first the sense,
To the dire breath accustomГўВҖВҷd, afterward
Regard it not.ГўВҖВқ My master thus; to whom
Answering I spake: ГўВҖВңSome compensation find
That the time past not wholly lost.ГўВҖВқ He then:
ГўВҖВңLo! how my thoughts eГўВҖВҷen to thy wishes tend!
My son! within these rocks,ГўВҖВқ he thus began,
ГўВҖВңAre three close circles in gradation placГўВҖВҷd,
As these which now thou leavГўВҖВҷst. Each one is full
Of spirits accursГўВҖВҷd; but that the sight alone
Hereafter may suffice thee, listen how
And for what cause in durance they abide.

ГўВҖВңOf all malicious act abhorrГўВҖВҷd in heaven,
The end is injury; and all such end
Either by force or fraud works otherГўВҖВҷs woe
But fraud, because of man peculiar evil,
To God is more displeasing; and beneath
The fraudulent are therefore doomГўВҖВҷd toГўВҖВҷ endure
Severer pang. The violent occupy
All the first circle; and because to force
Three persons are obnoxious, in three rounds
Each within other sepГўВҖВҷrate is it framГўВҖВҷd.
To God, his neighbour, and himself, by man
Force may be offerГўВҖВҷd; to himself I say
And his possessions, as thou soon shalt hear
At full. Death, violent death, and painful wounds
Upon his neighbour he inflicts; and wastes
By devastation, pillage, and the flames,
His substance. Slayers, and each one that smites
In malice, plundГўВҖВҷrers, and all robbers, hence
The torment undergo of the first round
In different herds. Man can do violence
To himself and his own blessings: and for this
He in the second round must aye deplore
With unavailing penitence his crime,
WhoeГўВҖВҷer deprives himself of life and light,
In reckless lavishment his talent wastes,
And sorrows there where he should dwell in joy.
To God may force be offerГўВҖВҷd, in the heart
Denying and blaspheming his high power,
And nature with her kindly law contemning.
And thence the inmost round marks with its seal
Sodom and Cahors, and all such as speak
Contemptuously of the Godhead in their hearts.

ГўВҖВңFraud, that in every conscience leaves a sting,
May be by man employГўВҖВҷd on one, whose trust
He wins, or on another who withholds
Strict confidence. Seems as the latter way
Broke but the bond of love which Nature makes.
Whence in the second circle have their nest
Dissimulation, witchcraft, flatteries,
Theft, falsehood, simony, all who seduce
To lust, or set their honesty at pawn,
With such vile scum as these. The other way
Forgets both NatureГўВҖВҷs general love, and that
Which thereto added afterwards gives birth
To special faith. Whence in the lesser circle,
Point of the universe, dread seat of Dis,
The traitor is eternally consumГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

I thus: ГўВҖВңInstructor, clearly thy discourse
Proceeds, distinguishing the hideous chasm
And its inhabitants with skill exact.
But tell me this: they of the dull, fat pool,
Whom the rain beats, or whom the tempest drives,
Or who with tongues so fierce conflicting meet,
Wherefore within the city fire-illumГўВҖВҷd
Are not these punishГўВҖВҷd, if GodГўВҖВҷs wrath be on them?
And if it be not, wherefore in such guise
Are they condemned?ГўВҖВқ He answer thus returnГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңWherefore in dotage wanders thus thy mind,
Not so accustomГўВҖВҷd? or what other thoughts
Possess it? Dwell not in thy memory
The words, wherein thy ethic page describes
Three dispositions adverse to HeavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs will,
IncontГўВҖВҷnence, malice, and mad brutishness,
And how incontinence the least offends
God, and least guilt incurs? If well thou note
This judgment, and remember who they are,
Without these walls to vain repentance doomГўВҖВҷd,
Thou shalt discern why they apart are placГўВҖВҷd
From these fell spirits, and less wreakful pours
Justice divine on them its vengeance down.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO Sun! who healest all imperfect sight,
Thou so contentГўВҖВҷst me, when thou solvГўВҖВҷst my doubt,
That ignorance not less than knowledge charms.
Yet somewhat turn thee back,ГўВҖВқ I in these words
ContinuГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңwhere thou saidst, that usury
Offends celestial Goodness; and this knot
PerplexГўВҖВҷd unravel.ГўВҖВқ He thus made reply:
ГўВҖВңPhilosophy, to an attentive ear,
Clearly points out, not in one part alone,
How imitative nature takes her course
From the celestial mind and from its art:
And where her laws the Stagyrite unfolds,
Not many leaves scannГўВҖВҷd oГўВҖВҷer, observing well
Thou shalt discover, that your art on her
Obsequious follows, as the learner treads
In his instructorГўВҖВҷs step, so that your art
Deserves the name of second in descent
From God. These two, if thou recall to mind
CreationГўВҖВҷs holy book, from the beginning
Were the right source of life and excellence
To human kind. But in another path
The usurer walks; and Nature in herself
And in her follower thus he sets at nought,
Placing elsewhere his hope. But follow now
My steps on forward journey bent; for now
The Pisces play with undulating glance
Along the horizon, and the Wain lies all
OГўВҖВҷer the north-west; and onward there a space
Is our steep passage down the rocky height.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XII


The place where to descend the precipice
We came, was rough as Alp, and on its verge
Such object lay, as every eye would shun.

As is that ruin, which AdiceГўВҖВҷs stream
On this side Trento struck, shouldГўВҖВҷring the wave,
Or loosГўВҖВҷd by earthquake or for lack of prop;
For from the mountainГўВҖВҷs summit, whence it movГўВҖВҷd
To the low level, so the headlong rock
Is shiverГўВҖВҷd, that some passage it might give
To him who from above would pass; eГўВҖВҷen such
Into the chasm was that descent: and there
At point of the disparted ridge lay stretchГўВҖВҷd
The infamy of Crete, detested brood
Of the feignГўВҖВҷd heifer: and at sight of us
It gnawГўВҖВҷd itself, as one with rage distract.

To him my guide exclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңPerchance thou deemГўВҖВҷst
The King of Athens here, who, in the world
Above, thy death contrivГўВҖВҷd. Monster! avaunt!
He comes not tutorГўВҖВҷd by thy sisterГўВҖВҷs art,
But to behold your torments is he come.ГўВҖВқ

Like to a bull, that with impetuous spring
Darts, at the moment when the fatal blow
Hath struck him, but unable to proceed
Plunges on either side; so saw I plunge
The Minotaur; whereat the sage exclaimГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңRun to the passage! while he storms, ГўВҖВҷt is well
That thou descend.ГўВҖВқ Thus down our road we took
Through those dilapidated crags, that oft
MovГўВҖВҷd underneath my feet, to weight like theirs
UnusГўВҖВҷd. I pondГўВҖВҷring went, and thus he spake:

ГўВҖВңPerhaps thy thoughts are of this ruinГўВҖВҷd steep,
Guarded by the brute violence, which I
Have vanquishГўВҖВҷd now. Know then, that when I erst
Hither descended to the nether hell,
This rock was not yet fallen. But past doubt
(If well I mark) not long ere He arrived,
Who carried off from Dis the mighty spoil
Of the highest circle, then through all its bounds
Such trembling seizГўВҖВҷd the deep concave and foul,
I thought the universe was thrillГўВҖВҷd with love,
Whereby, there are who deem, the world hath oft
Been into chaos turnГўВҖВҷd: and in that point,
Here, and elsewhere, that old rock toppled down.
But fix thine eyes beneath: the river of blood
Approaches, in the which all those are steepГўВҖВҷd,
Who have by violence injurГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ O blind lust!
O foolish wrath! who so dost goad us on
In the brief life, and in the eternal then
Thus miserably oГўВҖВҷerwhelm us. I beheld
An ample foss, that in a bow was bent,
As circling all the plain; for so my guide
Had told. Between it and the rampartГўВҖВҷs base
On trail ran Centaurs, with keen arrows armГўВҖВҷd,
As to the chase they on the earth were wont.

At seeing us descend they each one stood;
And issuing from the troop, three sped with bows
And missile weapons chosen first; of whom
One cried from far: ГўВҖВңSay to what pain ye come
CondemnГўВҖВҷd, who down this steep have journied? Speak
From whence ye stand, or else the bow I draw.ГўВҖВқ

To whom my guide: ГўВҖВңOur answer shall be made
To Chiron, there, when nearer him we come.
Ill was thy mind, thus ever quick and rash.ГўВҖВқ

Then me he touchГўВҖВҷd, and spake: ГўВҖВңNessus is this,
Who for the fair Deianira died,
And wrought himself revenge for his own fate.
He in the midst, that on his breast looks down,
Is the great Chiron who Achilles nursГўВҖВҷd;
That other Pholus, prone to wrath.ГўВҖВқ Around
The foss these go by thousands, aiming shafts
At whatsoever spirit dares emerge
From out the blood, more than his guilt allows.

We to those beasts, that rapid strode along,
Drew near, when Chiron took an arrow forth,
And with the notch pushГўВҖВҷd back his shaggy beard
To the cheek-bone, then his great mouth to view
Exposing, to his fellows thus exclaimГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңAre ye aware, that he who comes behind
Moves what he touches? The feet of the dead
Are not so wont.ГўВҖВқ My trusty guide, who now
Stood near his breast, where the two natures join,
Thus made reply: ГўВҖВңHe is indeed alive,
And solitary so must needs by me
Be shown the gloomy vale, thereto inducГўВҖВҷd
By strict necessity, not by delight.
She left her joyful harpings in the sky,
Who this new office to my care consignГўВҖВҷd.
He is no robber, no dark spirit I.
But by that virtue, which empowers my step
To treat so wild a path, grant us, I pray,
One of thy band, whom we may trust secure,
Who to the ford may lead us, and convey
Across, him mounted on his back; for he
Is not a spirit that may walk the air.ГўВҖВқ

Then on his right breast turning, Chiron thus
To Nessus spake: ГўВҖВңReturn, and be their guide.
And if ye chance to cross another troop,
Command them keep aloof.ГўВҖВқ Onward we movГўВҖВҷd,
The faithful escort by our side, along
The border of the crimson-seething flood,
Whence from those steepГўВҖВҷd within loud shrieks arose.

Some there I markГўВҖВҷd, as high as to their brow
ImmersГўВҖВҷd, of whom the mighty Centaur thus:
ГўВҖВңThese are the souls of tyrants, who were given
To blood and rapine. Here they wail aloud
Their merciless wrongs. Here Alexander dwells,
And Dionysius fell, who many a year
Of woe wrought for fair Sicily. That brow
Whereon the hair so jetty clustГўВҖВҷring hangs,
Is Azzolino; that with flaxen locks
ObizzoГўВҖВҷ of Este, in the world destroyГўВҖВҷd
By his foul step-son.ГўВҖВқ To the bard reverГўВҖВҷd
I turned me round, and thus he spake; ГўВҖВңLet him
Be to thee now first leader, me but next
To him in rank.ГўВҖВқ Then farther on a space
The Centaur pausГўВҖВҷd, near some, who at the throat
Were extant from the wave; and showing us
A spirit by itself apart retirГўВҖВҷd,
ExclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңHe in GodГўВҖВҷs bosom smote the heart,
Which yet is honourГўВҖВҷd on the bank of Thames.ГўВҖВқ

A race I next espied, who held the head,
And even all the bust above the stream.
ГўВҖВҷMidst these I many a face rememberГўВҖВҷd well.
Thus shallow more and more the blood became,
So that at last it but imbruГўВҖВҷd the feet;
And there our passage lay athwart the foss.

ГўВҖВңAs ever on this side the boiling wave
Thou seest diminishing,ГўВҖВқ the Centaur said,
ГўВҖВңSo on the other, be thou well assurГўВҖВҷd,
It lower still and lower sinks its bed,
Till in that part it reuniting join,
Where ГўВҖВҷt is the lot of tyranny to mourn.
There HeavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs stern justice lays chastising hand
On Attila, who was the scourge of earth,
On Sextus, and on Pyrrhus, and extracts
Tears ever by the seething flood unlockГўВҖВҷd
From the Rinieri, of Corneto this,
Pazzo the other namГўВҖВҷd, who fillГўВҖВҷd the ways
With violence and war.ГўВҖВқ This said, he turnГўВҖВҷd,
And quitting us, alone repassГўВҖВҷd the ford.




CANTO XIII


Ere Nessus yet had reachГўВҖВҷd the other bank,
We enterГўВҖВҷd on a forest, where no track
Of steps had worn a way. Not verdant there
The foliage, but of dusky hue; not light
The boughs and tapering, but with knares deformГўВҖВҷd
And matted thick: fruits there were none, but thorns
Instead, with venom fillГўВҖВҷd. Less sharp than these,
Less intricate the brakes, wherein abide
Those animals, that hate the culturГўВҖВҷd fields,
Betwixt Corneto and CecinaГўВҖВҷs stream.

Here the brute Harpies make their nest, the same
Who from the Strophades the Trojan band
Drove with dire boding of their future woe.
Broad are their pennons, of the human form
Their neck and countГўВҖВҷnance, armГўВҖВҷd with talons keen
The feet, and the huge belly fledge with wings
These sit and wail on the drear mystic wood.

The kind instructor in these words began:
ГўВҖВңEre farther thou proceed, know thou art now
IГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ second round, and shalt be, till thou come
Upon the horrid sand: look therefore well
Around thee, and such things thou shalt behold,
As would my speech discredit.ГўВҖВқ On all sides
I heard sad plainings breathe, and none could see
From whom they might have issuГўВҖВҷd. In amaze
Fast bound I stood. He, as it seemГўВҖВҷd, believГўВҖВҷd,
That I had thought so many voices came
From some amid those thickets close concealГўВҖВҷd,
And thus his speech resumГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңIf thou lop off
A single twig from one of those ill plants,
The thought thou hast conceivГўВҖВҷd shall vanish quite.ГўВҖВқ

Thereat a little stretching forth my hand,
From a great wilding gatherГўВҖВҷd I a branch,
And straight the trunk exclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңWhy pluckГўВҖВҷst thou me?ГўВҖВқ

Then as the dark blood trickled down its side,
These words it added: ГўВҖВңWherefore tearГўВҖВҷst me thus?
Is there no touch of mercy in thy breast?
Men once were we, that now are rooted here.
Thy hand might well have sparГўВҖВҷd us, had we been
The souls of serpents.ГўВҖВқ As a brand yet green,
That burning at one end from the other sends
A groaning sound, and hisses with the wind
That forces out its way, so burst at once,
Forth from the broken splinter words and blood.

I, letting fall the bough, remainГўВҖВҷd as one
AssailГўВҖВҷd by terror, and the sage replied:
ГўВҖВңIf he, O injurГўВҖВҷd spirit! could have believГўВҖВҷd
What he hath seen but in my verse describГўВҖВҷd,
He never against thee had stretchГўВҖВҷd his hand.
But I, because the thing surpassГўВҖВҷd belief,
Prompted him to this deed, which even now
Myself I rue. But tell me, who thou wast;
That, for this wrong to do thee some amends,
In the upper world (for thither to return
Is granted him) thy fame he may revive.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat pleasant word of thine,ГўВҖВқ the trunk replied
ГўВҖВңHath so inveigled me, that I from speech
Cannot refrain, wherein if I indulge
A little longer, in the snare detainГўВҖВҷd,
Count it not grievous. I it was, who held
Both keys to FrederickГўВҖВҷs heart, and turnГўВҖВҷd the wards,
Opening and shutting, with a skill so sweet,
That besides me, into his inmost breast
Scarce any other could admittance find.
The faith I bore to my high charge was such,
It cost me the life-blood that warmГўВҖВҷd my veins.
The harlot, who neГўВҖВҷer turnГўВҖВҷd her gloating eyes
From CaesarГўВҖВҷs household, common vice and pest
Of courts, ГўВҖВҷgainst me inflamГўВҖВҷd the minds of all;
And to Augustus they so spread the flame,
That my glad honours changГўВҖВҷd to bitter woes.
My soul, disdainful and disgusted, sought
Refuge in death from scorn, and I became,
Just as I was, unjust toward myself.
By the new roots, which fix this stem, I swear,
That never faith I broke to my liege lord,
Who merited such honour; and of you,
If any to the world indeed return,
Clear he from wrong my memory, that lies
Yet prostrate under envyГўВҖВҷs cruel blow.ГўВҖВқ

First somewhat pausing, till the mournful words
Were ended, then to me the bard began:
ГўВҖВңLose not the time; but speak and of him ask,
If more thou wish to learn.ГўВҖВқ Whence I replied:
ГўВҖВңQuestion thou him again of whatsoeГўВҖВҷer
Will, as thou thinkГўВҖВҷst, content me; for no power
Have I to ask, such pityГўВҖВҷ is at my heart.ГўВҖВқ

He thus resumГўВҖВҷd; ГўВҖВңSo may he do for thee
Freely what thou entreatest, as thou yet
Be pleasГўВҖВҷd, imprisonГўВҖВҷd Spirit! to declare,
How in these gnarled joints the soul is tied;
And whether any ever from such frame
Be loosenГўВҖВҷd, if thou canst, that also tell.ГўВҖВқ

Thereat the trunk breathГўВҖВҷd hard, and the wind soon
ChangГўВҖВҷd into sounds articulate like these;

Briefly ye shall be answerГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңWhen departs
The fierce soul from the body, by itself
Thence torn asunder, to the seventh gulf
By Minos doomГўВҖВҷd, into the wood it falls,
No place assignГўВҖВҷd, but wheresoever chance
Hurls it, there sprouting, as a grain of spelt,
It rises to a sapling, growing thence
A savage plant. The Harpies, on its leaves
Then feeding, cause both pain and for the pain
A vent to grief. We, as the rest, shall come
For our own spoils, yet not so that with them
We may again be clad; for what a man
Takes from himself it is not just he have.
Here we perforce shall drag them; and throughout
The dismal glade our bodies shall be hung,
Each on the wild thorn of his wretched shade.ГўВҖВқ

Attentive yet to listen to the trunk
We stood, expecting farther speech, when us
A noise surprisГўВҖВҷd, as when a man perceives
The wild boar and the hunt approach his place
Of stationГўВҖВҷd watch, who of the beasts and boughs
Loud rustling round him hears. And lo! there came
Two naked, torn with briers, in headlong flight,
That they before them broke each fan oГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ wood.
ГўВҖВңHaste now,ГўВҖВқ the foremost cried, ГўВҖВңnow haste thee death!ГўВҖВқ

The other, as seemГўВҖВҷd, impatient of delay
Exclaiming, ГўВҖВңLano! not so bent for speed
Thy sinews, in the lists of ToppoГўВҖВҷs field.ГўВҖВқ
And then, for that perchance no longer breath
SufficГўВҖВҷd him, of himself and of a bush
One group he made. Behind them was the wood
Full of black female mastiffs, gaunt and fleet,
As greyhounds that have newly slippГўВҖВҷd the leash.
On him, who squatted down, they stuck their fangs,
And having rent him piecemeal bore away
The torturГўВҖВҷd limbs. My guide then seizГўВҖВҷd my hand,
And led me to the thicket, which in vain
MournГўВҖВҷd through its bleeding wounds: ГўВҖВңO Giacomo
Of SantГўВҖВҷ Andrea! what avails it thee,ГўВҖВқ
It cried, ГўВҖВңthat of me thou hast made thy screen?
For thy ill life what blame on me recoils?ГўВҖВқ

When oГўВҖВҷer it he had pausГўВҖВҷd, my master spake:
ГўВҖВңSay who wast thou, that at so many points
BreathГўВҖВҷst out with blood thy lamentable speech?ГўВҖВқ

He answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңOh, ye spirits: arrivГўВҖВҷd in time
To spy the shameful havoc, that from me
My leaves hath severГўВҖВҷd thus, gather them up,
And at the foot of their sad parent-tree
Carefully lay them. In that cityГўВҖВҷ I dwelt,
Who for the Baptist her first patron changГўВҖВҷd,
Whence he for this shall cease not with his art
To work her woe: and if there still remainГўВҖВҷd not
On ArnoГўВҖВҷs passage some faint glimpse of him,
Those citizens, who rearГўВҖВҷd once more her walls
Upon the ashes left by Attila,
Had labourГўВҖВҷd without profit of their toil.
I slung the fatal noose from my own roof.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XIV


Soon as the charity of native land
Wrought in my bosom, I the scatterГўВҖВҷd leaves
Collected, and to him restorГўВҖВҷd, who now
Was hoarse with uttГўВҖВҷrance. To the limit thence
We came, which from the third the second round
Divides, and where of justice is displayГўВҖВҷd
Contrivance horrible. Things then first seen
Clearlier to manifest, I tell how next
A plain we reachГўВҖВҷd, that from its sterile bed
Each plant repellГўВҖВҷd. The mournful wood waves round
Its garland on all sides, as round the wood
Spreads the sad foss. There, on the very edge,
Our steps we stayГўВҖВҷd. It was an area wide
Of arid sand and thick, resembling most
The soil that erst by CatoГўВҖВҷs foot was trod.

Vengeance of HeavГўВҖВҷn! Oh! how shouldst thou be fearГўВҖВҷd
By all, who read what here my eyes beheld!

Of naked spirits many a flock I saw,
All weeping piteously, to different laws
Subjected: for on the earth some lay supine,
Some crouching close were seated, others pacГўВҖВҷd
Incessantly around; the latter tribe,
More numerous, those fewer who beneath
The torment lay, but louder in their grief.

OГўВҖВҷer all the sand fell slowly wafting down
Dilated flakes of fire, as flakes of snow
On Alpine summit, when the wind is hushГўВҖВҷd.
As in the torrid Indian clime, the son
Of Ammon saw upon his warrior band
Descending, solid flames, that to the ground
Came down: whence he bethought him with his troop
To trample on the soil; for easier thus
The vapour was extinguishГўВҖВҷd, while alone;
So fell the eternal fiery flood, wherewith
The marble glowГўВҖВҷd underneath, as under stove
The viands, doubly to augment the pain.

Unceasing was the play of wretched hands,
Now this, now that way glancing, to shake off
The heat, still falling fresh. I thus began:
ГўВҖВңInstructor! thou who all things overcomГўВҖВҷst,
Except the hardy demons, that rushГўВҖВҷd forth
To stop our entrance at the gate, say who
Is yon huge spirit, that, as seems, heeds not
The burning, but lies writhen in proud scorn,
As by the sultry tempest immaturГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқ

Straight he himself, who was aware I askГўВҖВҷd
My guide of him, exclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңSuch as I was
When living, dead such now I am. If Jove
Weary his workman out, from whom in ire
He snatchГўВҖВҷd the lightnings, that at my last day
TransfixГўВҖВҷd me, if the rest be weary out
At their black smithy labouring by turns
In Mongibello, while he cries aloud;
ГўВҖВңHelp, help, good Mulciber!ГўВҖВқ as erst he cried
In the Phlegraean warfare, and the bolts
Launch he full aimГўВҖВҷd at me with all his might,
He never should enjoy a sweet revenge.ГўВҖВқ

Then thus my guide, in accent higher raisГўВҖВҷd
Than I before had heard him: ГўВҖВңCapaneus!
Thou art more punishГўВҖВҷd, in that this thy pride
Lives yet unquenchГўВҖВҷd: no torrent, save thy rage,
Were to thy fury pain proportionГўВҖВҷd full.ГўВҖВқ

Next turning round to me with milder lip
He spake: ГўВҖВңThis of the seven kings was one,
Who girt the Theban walls with siege, and held,
As still he seems to hold, God in disdain,
And sets his high omnipotence at nought.
But, as I told him, his despiteful mood
Is ornament well suits the breast that wears it.
Follow me now; and look thou set not yet
Thy foot in the hot sand, but to the wood
Keep ever close.ГўВҖВқ Silently on we passГўВҖВҷd
To where there gushes from the forestГўВҖВҷs bound
A little brook, whose crimsonГўВҖВҷd wave yet lifts
My hair with horror. As the rill, that runs
From Bulicame, to be portionГўВҖВҷd out
Among the sinful women; so ran this
Down through the sand, its bottom and each bank
Stone-built, and either margin at its side,
Whereon I straight perceivГўВҖВҷd our passage lay.

ГўВҖВңOf all that I have shown thee, since that gate
We enterГўВҖВҷd first, whose threshold is to none
Denied, nought else so worthy of regard,
As is this river, has thine eye discernГўВҖВҷd,
OГўВҖВҷer which the flaming volley all is quenchГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

So spake my guide; and I him thence besought,
That having givГўВҖВҷn me appetite to know,
The food he too would give, that hunger cravГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңIn midst of ocean,ГўВҖВқ forthwith he began,
ГўВҖВңA desolate country lies, which Crete is namГўВҖВҷd,
Under whose monarch in old times the world
LivГўВҖВҷd pure and chaste. A mountain rises there,
CallГўВҖВҷd Ida, joyous once with leaves and streams,
Deserted now like a forbidden thing.
It was the spot which Rhea, SaturnГўВҖВҷs spouse,
Chose for the secret cradle of her son;
And better to conceal him, drownГўВҖВҷd in shouts
His infant cries. Within the mount, upright
An ancient form there stands and huge, that turns
His shoulders towards Damiata, and at Rome
As in his mirror looks. Of finest gold
His head is shapГўВҖВҷd, pure silver are the breast
And arms; thence to the middle is of brass.
And downward all beneath well-temperГўВҖВҷd steel,
Save the right foot of potterГўВҖВҷs clay, on which
Than on the other more erect he stands,
Each part except the gold, is rent throughout;
And from the fissure tears distil, which joinГўВҖВҷd
Penetrate to that cave. They in their course
Thus far precipitated down the rock
Form Acheron, and Styx, and Phlegethon;
Then by this straitenГўВҖВҷd channel passing hence
Beneath, eГўВҖВҷen to the lowest depth of all,
Form there Cocytus, of whose lake (thyself
Shall see it) I here give thee no account.ГўВҖВқ

Then I to him: ГўВҖВңIf from our world this sluice
Be thus derivГўВҖВҷd; wherefore to us but now
Appears it at this edge?ГўВҖВқ He straight replied:
ГўВҖВңThe place, thou knowГўВҖВҷst, is round; and though great part
Thou have already passГўВҖВҷd, still to the left
Descending to the nethermost, not yet
Hast thou the circuit made of the whole orb.
Wherefore if aught of new to us appear,
It needs not bring up wonder in thy looks.ГўВҖВқ

Then I again inquirГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңWhere flow the streams
Of Phlegethon and Lethe? for of one
Thou tellГўВҖВҷst not, and the other of that shower,
Thou sayГўВҖВҷst, is formГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ He answer thus returnГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңDoubtless thy questions all well pleasГўВҖВҷd I hear.
Yet the red seething wave might have resolvГўВҖВҷd
One thou proposest. Lethe thou shalt see,
But not within this hollow, in the place,
Whither to lave themselves the spirits go,
Whose blame hath been by penitence removГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ
He added: ГўВҖВңTime is now we quit the wood.
Look thou my steps pursue: the margins give
Safe passage, unimpeded by the flames;
For over them all vapour is extinct.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XV


One of the solid margins bears us now
EnvelopГўВҖВҷd in the mist, that from the stream
Arising, hovers oГўВҖВҷer, and saves from fire
Both piers and water. As the Flemings rear
Their mound, ГўВҖВҷtwixt Ghent and Bruges, to chase back
The ocean, fearing his tumultuous tide
That drives toward them, or the Paduans theirs
Along the Brenta, to defend their towns
And castles, ere the genial warmth be felt
On ChiarentanaГўВҖВҷs top; such were the mounds,
So framГўВҖВҷd, though not in height or bulk to these
Made equal, by the master, whosoeГўВҖВҷer
He was, that raisГўВҖВҷd them here. We from the wood
Were not so far removГўВҖВҷd, that turning round
I might not have discernГўВҖВҷd it, when we met
A troop of spirits, who came beside the pier.

They each one eyГўВҖВҷd us, as at eventide
One eyes another under a new moon,
And toward us sharpenГўВҖВҷd their sight as keen,
As an old tailor at his needleГўВҖВҷs eye.

Thus narrowly explorГўВҖВҷd by all the tribe,
I was agnizГўВҖВҷd of one, who by the skirt
Caught me, and cried, ГўВҖВңWhat wonder have we here!ГўВҖВқ

And I, when he to me outstretchГўВҖВҷd his arm,
Intently fixГўВҖВҷd my ken on his parchГўВҖВҷd looks,
That although smirchГўВҖВҷd with fire, they hinderГўВҖВҷd not
But I rememberГўВҖВҷd him; and towards his face
My hand inclining, answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңSir! Brunetto!

ГўВҖВңAnd art thou here?ГўВҖВқ He thus to me: ГўВҖВңMy son!
Oh let it not displease thee, if Brunetto
Latini but a little space with thee
Turn back, and leave his fellows to proceed.ГўВҖВқ

I thus to him replied: ГўВҖВңMuch as I can,
I thereto pray thee; and if thou be willing,
That I here seat me with thee, I consent;
His leave, with whom I journey, first obtainГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO son!ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwhoever of this throng
One instant stops, lies then a hundred years,
No fan to ventilate him, when the fire
Smites sorest. Pass thou therefore on. I close
Will at thy garments walk, and then rejoin
My troop, who go mourning their endless doom.ГўВҖВқ

I darГўВҖВҷd not from the path descend to tread
On equal ground with him, but held my head
Bent down, as one who walks in reverent guise.

ГўВҖВңWhat chance or destiny,ГўВҖВқ thus he began,
ГўВҖВңEre the last day conducts thee here below?
And who is this, that shows to thee the way?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere up aloft,ГўВҖВқ I answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңin the life
Serene, I wanderГўВҖВҷd in a valley lost,
Before mine age had to its fullness reachГўВҖВҷd.
But yester-morn I left it: then once more
Into that vale returning, him I met;
And by this path homeward he leads me back.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf thou,ГўВҖВқ he answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңfollow but thy star,
Thou canst not miss at last a glorious haven:
Unless in fairer days my judgment errГўВҖВҷd.
And if my fate so early had not chancГўВҖВҷd,
Seeing the heavГўВҖВҷns thus bounteous to thee, I
Had gladly givГўВҖВҷn thee comfort in thy work.
But that ungrateful and malignant race,
Who in old times came down from Fesole,
Ay and still smack of their rough mountain-flint,
Will for thy good deeds shew thee enmity.
Nor wonder; for amongst ill-savourГўВҖВҷd crabs
It suits not the sweet fig-tree lay her fruit.
Old fame reports them in the world for blind,
Covetous, envious, proud. Look to it well:
Take heed thou cleanse thee of their ways. For thee
Thy fortune hath such honour in reserve,
That thou by either party shalt be cravГўВҖВҷd
With hunger keen: but be the fresh herb far
From the goatГўВҖВҷs tooth. The herd of Fesole
May of themselves make litter, not touch the plant,
If any such yet spring on their rank bed,
In which the holy seed revives, transmitted
From those true Romans, who still there remainГўВҖВҷd,
When it was made the nest of so much ill.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWere all my wish fulfillГўВҖВҷd,ГўВҖВқ I straight replied,
ГўВҖВңThou from the confines of manГўВҖВҷs nature yet
Hadst not been driven forth; for in my mind
Is fixГўВҖВҷd, and now strikes full upon my heart
The dear, benign, paternal image, such
As thine was, when so lately thou didst teach me
The way for man to win eternity;
And how I prizГўВҖВҷd the lesson, it behooves,
That, long as life endures, my tongue should speak,
What of my fate thou tellГўВҖВҷst, that write I down:
And with another text to comment on
For her I keep it, the celestial dame,
Who will know all, if I to her arrive.
This only would I have thee clearly note:
That so my conscience have no plea against me;
Do fortune as she list, I stand preparГўВҖВҷd.
Not new or strange such earnest to mine ear.
Speed fortune then her wheel, as likes her best,
The clown his mattock; all things have their course.ГўВҖВқ

Thereat my sapient guide upon his right
TurnГўВҖВҷd himself back, then lookГўВҖВҷd at me and spake:
ГўВҖВңHe listens to good purpose who takes note.ГўВҖВқ

I not the less still on my way proceed,
Discoursing with Brunetto, and inquire
Who are most known and chief among his tribe.

ГўВҖВңTo know of some is well;ГўВҖВқ thus he replied,
ГўВҖВңBut of the rest silence may best beseem.
Time would not serve us for report so long.
In brief I tell thee, that all these were clerks,
Men of great learning and no less renown,
By one same sin polluted in the world.
With them is Priscian, and AccorsoГўВҖВҷs son
Francesco herds among that wretched throng:
And, if the wish of so impure a blotch
PossessГўВҖВҷd thee, him thou also mightГўВҖВҷst have seen,
Who by the servantsГўВҖВҷ servant was transferrГўВҖВҷd
From ArnoГўВҖВҷs seat to Bacchiglione, where
His ill-strainГўВҖВҷd nerves he left. I more would add,
But must from farther speech and onward way
Alike desist, for yonder I behold
A mist new-risen on the sandy plain.
A company, with whom I may not sort,
Approaches. I commend my TREASURE to thee,
Wherein I yet survive; my sole request.ГўВҖВқ

This said he turnГўВҖВҷd, and seemГўВҖВҷd as one of those,
Who oГўВҖВҷer VeronaГўВҖВҷs champain try their speed
For the green mantle, and of them he seemГўВҖВҷd,
Not he who loses but who gains the prize.




CANTO XVI


Now came I where the waterГўВҖВҷs din was heard,
As down it fell into the other round,
Resounding like the hum of swarming bees:
When forth together issuГўВҖВҷd from a troop,
That passГўВҖВҷd beneath the fierce tormenting storm,
Three spirits, running swift. They towards us came,
And each one cried aloud, ГўВҖВңOh do thou stay!
Whom by the fashion of thy garb we deem
To be some inmate of our evil land.ГўВҖВқ

Ah me! what wounds I markГўВҖВҷd upon their limbs,
Recent and old, inflicted by the flames!
EГўВҖВҷen the remembrance of them grieves me yet.

Attentive to their cry my teacher pausГўВҖВҷd,
And turnГўВҖВҷd to me his visage, and then spake;
ГўВҖВңWait now! our courtesy these merit well:
And were ГўВҖВҷt not for the nature of the place,
Whence glide the fiery darts, I should have said,
That haste had better suited thee than them.ГўВҖВқ

They, when we stoppГўВҖВҷd, resumГўВҖВҷd their ancient wail,
And soon as they had reachГўВҖВҷd us, all the three
WhirlГўВҖВҷd round together in one restless wheel.
As naked champions, smearГўВҖВҷd with slippery oil,
Are wont intent to watch their place of hold
And vantage, ere in closer strife they meet;
Thus each one, as he wheelГўВҖВҷd, his countenance
At me directed, so that opposite
The neck movГўВҖВҷd ever to the twinkling feet.

ГўВҖВңIf misery of this drear wilderness,ГўВҖВқ
Thus one began, ГўВҖВңadded to our sad cheer
And destitute, do call forth scorn on us
And our entreaties, let our great renown
Incline thee to inform us who thou art,
That dost imprint with living feet unharmГўВҖВҷd
The soil of Hell. He, in whose track thou seeГўВҖВҷst
My steps pursuing, naked though he be
And reft of all, was of more high estate
Than thou believest; grandchild of the chaste
Gualdrada, him they Guidoguerra callГўВҖВҷd,
Who in his lifetime many a noble act
AchievГўВҖВҷd, both by his wisdom and his sword.
The other, next to me that beats the sand,
Is Aldobrandi, name deserving well,
In the upper world, of honour; and myself
Who in this torment do partake with them,
Am Rusticucci, whom, past doubt, my wife
Of savage temper, more than aught beside
Hath to this evil brought.ГўВҖВқ If from the fire
I had been shelterГўВҖВҷd, down amidst them straight
I then had cast me, nor my guide, I deem,
Would have restrainГўВҖВҷd my going; but that fear
Of the dire burning vanquishГўВҖВҷd the desire,
Which made me eager of their wishГўВҖВҷd embrace.

I then began: ГўВҖВңNot scorn, but grief much more,
Such as long time alone can cure, your doom
FixГўВҖВҷd deep within me, soon as this my lord
Spake words, whose tenour taught me to expect
That such a race, as ye are, was at hand.
I am a countryman of yours, who still
Affectionate have utterГўВҖВҷd, and have heard
Your deeds and names renownГўВҖВҷd. Leaving the gall
For the sweet fruit I go, that a sure guide
Hath promisГўВҖВҷd to me. But behooves, that far
As to the centre first I downward tend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңSo may long space thy spirit guide thy limbs,ГўВҖВқ
He answer straight returnГўВҖВҷd; ГўВҖВңand so thy fame
Shine bright, when thou art gone; as thou shalt tell,
If courtesy and valour, as they wont,
Dwell in our city, or have vanishГўВҖВҷd clean?
For one amidst us late condemnГўВҖВҷd to wail,
Borsiere, yonder walking with his peers,
Grieves us no little by the news he brings.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAn upstart multitude and sudden gains,
Pride and excess, O Florence! have in thee
EngenderГўВҖВҷd, so that now in tears thou mournГўВҖВҷst!ГўВҖВқ
Thus cried I with my face upraisГўВҖВҷd, and they
All three, who for an answer took my words,
LookГўВҖВҷd at each other, as men look when truth
Comes to their ear. ГўВҖВңIf thou at other times,ГўВҖВқ
They all at once rejoinГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңso easily
Satisfy those, who question, happy thou,
Gifted with words, so apt to speak thy thought!
Wherefore if thou escape this darksome clime,
Returning to behold the radiant stars,
When thou with pleasure shalt retrace the past,
See that of us thou speak among mankind.ГўВҖВқ

This said, they broke the circle, and so swift
Fled, that as pinions seemГўВҖВҷd their nimble feet.

Not in so short a time might one have said
ГўВҖВңAmen,ГўВҖВқ as they had vanishГўВҖВҷd. Straight my guide
PursuГўВҖВҷd his track. I followГўВҖВҷd; and small space
Had we passГўВҖВҷd onward, when the waterГўВҖВҷs sound
Was now so near at hand, that we had scarce
Heard one anotherГўВҖВҷs speech for the loud din.

EГўВҖВҷen as the river, that holds on its course
Unmingled, from the mount of Vesulo,
On the left side of Apennine, toward
The east, which Acquacheta higher up
They call, ere it descend into the vale,
At Forli by that name no longer known,
Rebellows oГўВҖВҷer Saint Benedict, rollГўВҖВҷd on
From the Alpine summit down a precipice,
Where space enough to lodge a thousand spreads;
Thus downward from a craggy steep we found,
That this dark wave resounded, roaring loud,
So that the ear its clamour soon had stunnГўВҖВҷd.

I had a cord that bracГўВҖВҷd my girdle round,
Wherewith I erst had thought fast bound to take
The painted leopard. This when I had all
UnloosenГўВҖВҷd from me (so my master bade)
I gatherГўВҖВҷd up, and stretchГўВҖВҷd it forth to him.
Then to the right he turnГўВҖВҷd, and from the brink
Standing few paces distant, cast it down
Into the deep abyss. ГўВҖВңAnd somewhat strange,ГўВҖВқ
Thus to myself I spake, ГўВҖВңsignal so strange
Betokens, which my guide with earnest eye
Thus follows.ГўВҖВқ Ah! what caution must men use
With those who look not at the deed alone,
But spy into the thoughts with subtle skill!

ГўВҖВңQuickly shall come,ГўВҖВқ he said, ГўВҖВңwhat I expect,
Thine eye discover quickly, that whereof
Thy thought is dreaming.ГўВҖВқ Ever to that truth,
Which but the semblance of a falsehood wears,
A man, if possible, should bar his lip;
Since, although blameless, he incurs reproach.
But silence here were vain; and by these notes
Which now I sing, reader! I swear to thee,
So may they favour find to latest times!
That through the gross and murky air I spied
A shape come swimming up, that might have quellГўВҖВҷd
The stoutest heart with wonder, in such guise
As one returns, who hath been down to loose
An anchor grappled fast against some rock,
Or to aught else that in the salt wave lies,
Who upward springing close draws in his feet.




CANTO XVII


ГўВҖВңLo! the fell monster with the deadly sting!
Who passes mountains, breaks through fenced walls
And firm embattled spears, and with his filth
Taints all the world!ГўВҖВқ Thus me my guide addressГўВҖВҷd,
And beckonГўВҖВҷd him, that he should come to shore,
Near to the stony causewayГўВҖВҷs utmost edge.

Forthwith that image vile of fraud appearГўВҖВҷd,
His head and upper part exposГўВҖВҷd on land,
But laid not on the shore his bestial train.
His face the semblance of a just manГўВҖВҷs wore,
So kind and gracious was its outward cheer;
The rest was serpent all: two shaggy claws
ReachГўВҖВҷd to the armpits, and the back and breast,
And either side, were painted oГўВҖВҷer with nodes
And orbits. Colours variegated more
Nor Turks nor Tartars eГўВҖВҷer on cloth of state
With interchangeable embroidery wove,
Nor spread Arachne oГўВҖВҷer her curious loom.
As ofttimes a light skiff, moorГўВҖВҷd to the shore,
Stands part in water, part upon the land;
Or, as where dwells the greedy German boor,
The beaver settles watching for his prey;
So on the rim, that fencГўВҖВҷd the sand with rock,
Sat perchГўВҖВҷd the fiend of evil. In the void
Glancing, his tail upturnГўВҖВҷd its venomous fork,
With sting like scorpionГўВҖВҷs armГўВҖВҷd. Then thus my guide:
ГўВҖВңNow need our way must turn few steps apart,
Far as to that ill beast, who couches there.ГўВҖВқ

Thereat toward the right our downward course
We shapГўВҖВҷd, and, better to escape the flame
And burning marle, ten paces on the verge
Proceeded. Soon as we to him arrive,
A little further on mine eye beholds
A tribe of spirits, seated on the sand
Near the wide chasm. Forthwith my master spake:
ГўВҖВңThat to the full thy knowledge may extend
Of all this round contains, go now, and mark
The mien these wear: but hold not long discourse.
Till thou returnest, I with him meantime
Will parley, that to us he may vouchsafe
The aid of his strong shoulders.ГўВҖВқ Thus alone
Yet forward on the extremity I pacГўВҖВҷd
Of that seventh circle, where the mournful tribe
Were seated. At the eyes forth gushГўВҖВҷd their pangs.
Against the vapours and the torrid soil
Alternately their shifting hands they plied.
Thus use the dogs in summer still to ply
Their jaws and feet by turns, when bitten sore
By gnats, or flies, or gadflies swarming round.

Noting the visages of some, who lay
Beneath the pelting of that dolorous fire,
One of them all I knew not; but perceivГўВҖВҷd,
That pendent from his neck each bore a pouch
With colours and with emblems various markГўВҖВҷd,
On which it seemГўВҖВҷd as if their eye did feed.

And when amongst them looking round I came,
A yellow purse I saw with azure wrought,
That wore a lionГўВҖВҷs countenance and port.
Then still my sight pursuing its career,
Another I beheld, than blood more red.
A goose display of whiter wing than curd.
And one, who bore a fat and azure swine
PicturГўВҖВҷd on his white scrip, addressed me thus:
ГўВҖВңWhat dost thou in this deep? Go now and know,
Since yet thou livest, that my neighbour here
Vitaliano on my left shall sit.
A Paduan with these Florentines am I.
Ofttimes they thunder in mine ears, exclaiming
ГўВҖВҳO haste that noble knight! he who the pouch
With the three beaks will bring!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ This said, he writhГўВҖВҷd
The mouth, and lollГўВҖВҷd the tongue out, like an ox
That licks his nostrils. I, lest longer stay
He ill might brook, who bade me stay not long,
Backward my steps from those sad spirits turnГўВҖВҷd.

My guide already seated on the haunch
Of the fierce animal I found; and thus
He me encouragГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңBe thou stout; be bold.
Down such a steep flight must we now descend!
Mount thou before: for that no power the tail
May have to harm thee, I will be iГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ midst.ГўВҖВқ

As one, who hath an ague fit so near,
His nails already are turnГўВҖВҷd blue, and he
Quivers all oГўВҖВҷer, if he but eye the shade;
Such was my cheer at hearing of his words.
But shame soon interposГўВҖВҷd her threat, who makes
The servant bold in presence of his lord.

I settled me upon those shoulders huge,
And would have said, but that the words to aid
My purpose came not, ГўВҖВңLook thou clasp me firm!ГўВҖВқ

But he whose succour then not first I provГўВҖВҷd,
Soon as I mounted, in his arms aloft,
Embracing, held me up, and thus he spake:
ГўВҖВңGeryon! now move thee! be thy wheeling gyres
Of ample circuit, easy thy descent.
Think on thГўВҖВҷ unusual burden thou sustainГўВҖВҷst.ГўВҖВқ

As a small vessel, backГўВҖВҷning out from land,
Her station quits; so thence the monster loosГўВҖВҷd,
And when he felt himself at large, turnГўВҖВҷd round
There where the breast had been, his forked tail.
Thus, like an eel, outstretchГўВҖВҷd at length he steerГўВҖВҷd,
GathГўВҖВҷring the air up with retractile claws.

Not greater was the dread when Phaeton
The reins let drop at random, whence high heaven,
Whereof signs yet appear, was wrapt in flames;
Nor when ill-fated Icarus perceivГўВҖВҷd,
By liquefaction of the scalded wax,
The trusted pennons loosenГўВҖВҷd from his loins,
His sire exclaiming loud, ГўВҖВңIll way thou keepГўВҖВҷst!ГўВҖВқ
Than was my dread, when round me on each part
The air I viewГўВҖВҷd, and other object none
Save the fell beast. He slowly sailing, wheels
His downward motion, unobservГўВҖВҷd of me,
But that the wind, arising to my face,
Breathes on me from below. Now on our right
I heard the cataract beneath us leap
With hideous crash; whence bending down toГўВҖВҷ explore,
New terror I conceivГўВҖВҷd at the steep plunge:

For flames I saw, and wailings smote mine ear:
So that all trembling close I crouchГўВҖВҷd my limbs,
And then distinguishГўВҖВҷd, unperceivГўВҖВҷd before,
By the dread torments that on every side
Drew nearer, how our downward course we wound.

As falcon, that hath long been on the wing,
But lure nor bird hath seen, while in despair
The falconer cries, ГўВҖВңAh me! thou stoopГўВҖВҷst to earth!ГўВҖВқ
Wearied descends, and swiftly down the sky
In many an orbit wheels, then lighting sits
At distance from his lord in angry mood;
So Geryon lighting places us on foot
Low down at base of the deep-furrowГўВҖВҷd rock,
And, of his burden there dischargГўВҖВҷd, forthwith
Sprang forward, like an arrow from the string.




CANTO XVIII


There is a place within the depths of hell
CallГўВҖВҷd Malebolge, all of rock dark-stainГўВҖВҷd
With hue ferruginous, eГўВҖВҷen as the steep
That round it circling winds. Right in the midst
Of that abominable region, yawns
A spacious gulf profound, whereof the frame
Due time shall tell. The circle, that remains,
Throughout its round, between the gulf and base
Of the high craggy banks, successive forms
Ten trenches, in its hollow bottom sunk.

As where to guard the walls, full many a foss
Begirds some stately castle, sure defence
Affording to the space within, so here
Were modelГўВҖВҷd these; and as like fortresses
EГўВҖВҷen from their threshold to the brink without,
Are flankГўВҖВҷd with bridges; from the rockГўВҖВҷs low base
Thus flinty paths advancГўВҖВҷd, that ГўВҖВҷcross the moles
And dikes, struck onward far as to the gulf,
That in one bound collected cuts them off.
Such was the place, wherein we found ourselves
From GeryonГўВҖВҷs back dislodgГўВҖВҷd. The bard to left
Held on his way, and I behind him movГўВҖВҷd.

On our right hand new misery I saw,
New pains, new executioners of wrath,
That swarming peopled the first chasm. Below
Were naked sinners. Hitherward they came,
Meeting our faces from the middle point,
With us beyond but with a larger stride.
EГўВҖВҷen thus the Romans, when the year returns
Of Jubilee, with better speed to rid
The thronging multitudes, their means devise
For such as pass the bridge; that on one side
All front toward the castle, and approach
Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs fane, on thГўВҖВҷ other towards the mount.

Each divers way along the grisly rock,
HornГўВҖВҷd demons I beheld, with lashes huge,
That on their back unmercifully smote.
Ah! how they made them bound at the first stripe!

None for the second waited nor the third.

Meantime as on I passГўВҖВҷd, one met my sight
Whom soon as viewГўВҖВҷd; ГўВҖВңOf him,ГўВҖВқ cried I, ГўВҖВңnot yet
Mine eye hath had his fill.ГўВҖВқ With fixed gaze
I therefore scannГўВҖВҷd him. Straight the teacher kind
PausГўВҖВҷd with me, and consented I should walk
Backward a space, and the tormented spirit,
Who thought to hide him, bent his visage down.
But it availГўВҖВҷd him nought; for I exclaimГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңThou who dost cast thy eye upon the ground,
Unless thy features do belie thee much,
Venedico art thou. But what brings thee
Into this bitter seasГўВҖВҷning?ГўВҖВқ He replied:
ГўВҖВңUnwillingly I answer to thy words.
But thy clear speech, that to my mind recalls
The world I once inhabited, constrains me.
Know then ГўВҖВҷtwas I who led fair Ghisola
To do the MarquisГўВҖВҷ will, however fame
The shameful tale have bruited. Nor alone
Bologna hither sendeth me to mourn
Rather with us the place is so oГўВҖВҷerthrongГўВҖВҷd
That not so many tongues this day are taught,
Betwixt the Reno and SavenaГўВҖВҷs stream,
To answer SIPA in their countryГўВҖВҷs phrase.
And if of that securer proof thou need,
Remember but our craving thirst for gold.ГўВҖВқ

Him speaking thus, a demon with his thong
Struck, and exclaimГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңAway! corrupter! here
Women are none for sale.ГўВҖВқ Forthwith I joinГўВҖВҷd
My escort, and few paces thence we came
To where a rock forth issued from the bank.
That easily ascended, to the right
Upon its splinter turning, we depart
From those eternal barriers. When arrivГўВҖВҷd,
Where underneath the gaping arch lets pass
The scourged souls: ГўВҖВңPause here,ГўВҖВқ the teacher said,
ГўВҖВңAnd let these others miserable, now
Strike on thy ken, faces not yet beheld,
For that together they with us have walkГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

From the old bridge we eyГўВҖВҷd the pack, who came
From thГўВҖВҷ other side towards us, like the rest,
Excoriate from the lash. My gentle guide,
By me unquestionГўВҖВҷd, thus his speech resumГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңBehold that lofty shade, who this way tends,
And seems too woe-begone to drop a tear.
How yet the regal aspect he retains!
Jason is he, whose skill and prowess won
The ram from Colchos. To the Lemnian isle
His passage thither led him, when those bold
And pitiless women had slain all their males.
There he with tokens and fair witching words
Hypsipyle beguilГўВҖВҷd, a virgin young,
Who first had all the rest herself beguilГўВҖВҷd.
Impregnated he left her there forlorn.
Such is the guilt condemns him to this pain.
Here too MedeaГўВҖВҷs injГўВҖВҷries are avenged.
All bear him company, who like deceit
To his have practisГўВҖВҷd. And thus much to know
Of the first vale suffice thee, and of those
Whom its keen torments urge.ГўВҖВқ Now had we come
Where, crossing the next pier, the straightenГўВҖВҷd path
Bestrides its shoulders to another arch.

Hence in the second chasm we heard the ghosts,
Who jibber in low melancholy sounds,
With wide-stretchГўВҖВҷd nostrils snort, and on themselves
Smite with their palms. Upon the banks a scurf
From the foul steam condensГўВҖВҷd, encrusting hung,
That held sharp combat with the sight and smell.

So hollow is the depth, that from no part,
Save on the summit of the rocky span,
Could I distinguish aught. Thus far we came;
And thence I saw, within the foss below,
A crowd immersГўВҖВҷd in ordure, that appearГўВҖВҷd
Draff of the human body. There beneath
Searching with eye inquisitive, I markГўВҖВҷd
One with his head so grimГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВҷtwere hard to deem,
If he were clerk or layman. Loud he cried:
ГўВҖВңWhy greedily thus bendest more on me,
Than on these other filthy ones, thy ken?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBecause if true my memГўВҖВҷry,ГўВҖВқ I replied,
ГўВҖВңI heretofore have seen thee with dry locks,
And thou Alessio art of Lucca sprung.
Therefore than all the rest I scan thee more.ГўВҖВқ

Then beating on his brain these words he spake:
ГўВҖВңMe thus low down my flatteries have sunk,
Wherewith I neГўВҖВҷer enough could glut my tongue.ГўВҖВқ

My leader thus: ГўВҖВңA little further stretch
Thy face, that thou the visage well mayst note
Of that besotted, sluttish courtezan,
Who there doth rend her with defiled nails,
Now crouching down, now risen on her feet.

ГўВҖВңThais is this, the harlot, whose false lip
AnswerГўВҖВҷd her doting paramour that askГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВҳThankest me much!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳSay rather wondrously,ГўВҖВҷ
And seeing this here satiate be our view.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XIX


Woe to thee, Simon Magus! woe to you,
His wretched followers! who the things of God,
Which should be wedded unto goodness, them,
Rapacious as ye are, do prostitute
For gold and silver in adultery!
Now must the trumpet sound for you, since yours
Is the third chasm. Upon the following vault
We now had mounted, where the rock impends
Directly oГўВҖВҷer the centre of the foss.

Wisdom Supreme! how wonderful the art,
Which thou dost manifest in heaven, in earth,
And in the evil world, how just a meed
Allotting by thy virtue unto all!

I saw the livid stone, throughout the sides
And in its bottom full of apertures,
All equal in their width, and circular each,
Nor ample less nor larger they appearГўВҖВҷd
Than in Saint JohnГўВҖВҷs fair dome of me belovГўВҖВҷd
Those framГўВҖВҷd to hold the pure baptismal streams,
One of the which I brake, some few years past,
To save a whelming infant; and be this
A seal to undeceive whoever doubts
The motive of my deed. From out the mouth
Of every one, emergГўВҖВҷd a sinnerГўВҖВҷs feet
And of the legs high upward as the calf
The rest beneath was hid. On either foot
The soles were burning, whence the flexile joints
GlancГўВҖВҷd with such violent motion, as had snapt
Asunder cords or twisted withs. As flame,
Feeding on unctuous matter, glides along
The surface, scarcely touching where it moves;
So here, from heel to point, glided the flames.

ГўВҖВңMaster! say who is he, than all the rest
Glancing in fiercer agony, on whom
A ruddier flame doth prey?ГўВҖВқ I thus inquirГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңIf thou be willing,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңthat I
Carry thee down, where least the slope bank falls,
He of himself shall tell thee and his wrongs.ГўВҖВқ

I then: ГўВҖВңAs pleases thee to me is best.
Thou art my lord; and knowГўВҖВҷst that neГўВҖВҷer I quit
Thy will: what silence hides that knowest thou.ГўВҖВқ
Thereat on the fourth pier we came, we turnГўВҖВҷd,
And on our left descended to the depth,
A narrow strait and perforated close.
Nor from his side my leader set me down,
Till to his orifice he brought, whose limb
QuivГўВҖВҷring expressГўВҖВҷd his pang. ГўВҖВңWhoeГўВҖВҷer thou art,
Sad spirit! thus reversГўВҖВҷd, and as a stake
DrivГўВҖВҷn in the soil!ГўВҖВқ I in these words began,
ГўВҖВңIf thou be able, utter forth thy voice.ГўВҖВқ

There stood I like the friar, that doth shrive
A wretch for murder doomГўВҖВҷd, who eГўВҖВҷen when fixГўВҖВҷd,
Calleth him back, whence death awhile delays.

He shouted: ГўВҖВңHa! already standest there?
Already standest there, O Boniface!
By many a year the writing playГўВҖВҷd me false.
So early dost thou surfeit with the wealth,
For which thou fearedst not in guile to take
The lovely lady, and then mangle her?ГўВҖВқ

I felt as those who, piercing not the drift
Of answer made them, stand as if exposГўВҖВҷd
In mockery, nor know what to reply,
When Virgil thus admonishГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңTell him quick,
I am not he, not he, whom thou believГўВҖВҷst.ГўВҖВқ

And I, as was enjoinГўВҖВҷd me, straight replied.

That heard, the spirit all did wrench his feet,
And sighing next in woeful accent spake:
ГўВҖВңWhat then of me requirest?ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңIf to know
So much imports thee, who I am, that thou
Hast therefore down the bank descended, learn
That in the mighty mantle I was robГўВҖВҷd,
And of a she-bear was indeed the son,
So eager to advance my whelps, that there
My having in my purse above I stowГўВҖВҷd,
And here myself. Under my head are draggГўВҖВҷd
The rest, my predecessors in the guilt
Of simony. StretchГўВҖВҷd at their length they lie
Along an opening in the rock. ГўВҖВҷMidst them
I also low shall fall, soon as he comes,
For whom I took thee, when so hastily
I questionГўВҖВҷd. But already longer time
Hath passГўВҖВҷd, since my souls kindled, and I thus
UpturnГўВҖВҷd have stood, than is his doom to stand
Planted with fiery feet. For after him,
One yet of deeds more ugly shall arrive,
From forth the west, a shepherd without law,
Fated to cover both his form and mine.
He a new Jason shall be callГўВҖВҷd, of whom
In Maccabees we read; and favour such
As to that priest his king indulgent showГўВҖВҷd,
Shall be of FranceГўВҖВҷs monarch shown to him.ГўВҖВқ

I know not if I here too far presumГўВҖВҷd,
But in this strain I answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңTell me now,
What treasures from St. Peter at the first
Our Lord demanded, when he put the keys
Into his charge? Surely he askГўВҖВҷd no more
But, Follow me! Nor Peter nor the rest
Or gold or silver of Matthias took,
When lots were cast upon the forfeit place
Of the condemned soul. Abide thou then;
Thy punishment of right is merited:
And look thou well to that ill-gotten coin,
Which against Charles thy hardihood inspirГўВҖВҷd.
If reverence of the keys restrainГўВҖВҷd me not,
Which thou in happier time didst hold, I yet
Severer speech might use. Your avarice
OГўВҖВҷercasts the world with mourning, under foot
Treading the good, and raising bad men up.
Of shepherds, like to you, thГўВҖВҷ Evangelist
Was ware, when her, who sits upon the waves,
With kings in filthy whoredom he beheld,
She who with seven heads towerГўВҖВҷd at her birth,
And from ten horns her proof of glory drew,
Long as her spouse in virtue took delight.
Of gold and silver ye have made your god,
DiffГўВҖВҷring wherein from the idolater,
But he that worships one, a hundred ye?
Ah, Constantine! to how much ill gave birth,
Not thy conversion, but that plenteous dower,
Which the first wealthy Father gainГўВҖВҷd from thee!ГўВҖВқ

Meanwhile, as thus I sung, he, whether wrath
Or conscience smote him, violent upsprang
Spinning on either sole. I do believe
My teacher well was pleasГўВҖВҷd, with so composГўВҖВҷd
A lip, he listenГўВҖВҷd ever to the sound
Of the true words I utterГўВҖВҷd. In both arms
He caught, and to his bosom lifting me
Upward retracГўВҖВҷd the way of his descent.

Nor weary of his weight he pressГўВҖВҷd me close,
Till to the summit of the rock we came,
Our passage from the fourth to the fifth pier.
His cherishГўВҖВҷd burden there gently he placГўВҖВҷd
Upon the rugged rock and steep, a path
Not easy for the clambГўВҖВҷring goat to mount.

Thence to my view another vale appearГўВҖВҷd




CANTO XX


And now the verse proceeds to torments new,
Fit argument of this the twentieth strain
Of the first song, whose awful theme records
The spirits whelmГўВҖВҷd in woe. Earnest I lookГўВҖВҷd
Into the depth, that openГўВҖВҷd to my view,
MoistenГўВҖВҷd with tears of anguish, and beheld
A tribe, that came along the hollow vale,
In silence weeping: such their step as walk
Quires chanting solemn litanies on earth.

As on them more direct mine eye descends,
Each wondrously seemГўВҖВҷd to be reversГўВҖВҷd
At the neck-bone, so that the countenance
Was from the reins averted: and because
None might before him look, they were compellГўВҖВҷd
ToГўВҖВҷ advance with backward gait. Thus one perhaps
Hath been by force of palsy clean transposГўВҖВҷd,
But I neГўВҖВҷer saw it nor believe it so.

Now, reader! think within thyself, so God
Fruit of thy reading give thee! how I long
Could keep my visage dry, when I beheld
Near me our form distorted in such guise,
That on the hinder parts fallГўВҖВҷn from the face
The tears down-streaming rollГўВҖВҷd. Against a rock
I leant and wept, so that my guide exclaimГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңWhat, and art thou too witless as the rest?
Here pity most doth show herself alive,
When she is dead. What guilt exceedeth his,
Who with HeavenГўВҖВҷs judgment in his passion strives?
Raise up thy head, raise up, and see the man,
Before whose eyes earth gapГўВҖВҷd in Thebes, when all
Cried out, ГўВҖВҳAmphiaraus, whither rushest?
ГўВҖВҳWhy leavest thou the war?ГўВҖВҷ He not the less
Fell ruining far as to Minos down,
Whose grapple none eludes. Lo! how he makes
The breast his shoulders, and who once too far
Before him wishГўВҖВҷd to see, now backward looks,
And treads reverse his path. Tiresias note,
Who semblance changГўВҖВҷd, when woman he became
Of male, through every limb transformГўВҖВҷd, and then
Once more behovГўВҖВҷd him with his rod to strike
The two entwining serpents, ere the plumes,
That markГўВҖВҷd the better sex, might shoot again.

ГўВҖВңAruns, with more his belly facing, comes.
On LuniГўВҖВҷs mountains ГўВҖВҷmidst the marbles white,
Where delves CarraraГўВҖВҷs hind, who wons beneath,
A cavern was his dwelling, whence the stars
And main-sea wide in boundless view he held.

ГўВҖВңThe next, whose loosenГўВҖВҷd tresses overspread
Her bosom, which thou seest not (for each hair
On that side grows) was Manto, she who searchГўВҖВҷd
Through many regions, and at length her seat
FixГўВҖВҷd in my native land, whence a short space
My words detain thy audience. When her sire
From life departed, and in servitude
The city dedicate to Bacchus mournГўВҖВҷd,
Long time she went a wandГўВҖВҷrer through the world.
Aloft in ItalyГўВҖВҷs delightful land
A lake there lies, at foot of that proud Alp,
That oГўВҖВҷer the Tyrol locks Germania in,
Its name Benacus, which a thousand rills,
Methinks, and more, water between the vale
Camonica and Garda and the height
Of Apennine remote. There is a spot
At midway of that lake, where he who bears
Of TrentoГўВҖВҷs flock the pastГўВҖВҷral staff, with him
Of Brescia, and the Veronese, might each
Passing that way his benediction give.
A garrison of goodly site and strong
Peschiera stands, to awe with front opposГўВҖВҷd
The Bergamese and Brescian, whence the shore
More slope each way descends. There, whatsoevГўВҖВҷer
BenacusГўВҖВҷ bosom holds not, tumbling oГўВҖВҷer
Down falls, and winds a river flood beneath
Through the green pastures. Soon as in his course
The steam makes head, Benacus then no more
They call the name, but Mincius, till at last
Reaching Governo into Po he falls.
Not far his course hath run, when a wide flat
It finds, which overstretchmg as a marsh
It covers, pestilent in summer oft.
Hence journeying, the savage maiden saw
ГўВҖВҷMidst of the fen a territory waste
And naked of inhabitants. To shun
All human converse, here she with her slaves
Plying her arts remainГўВҖВҷd, and livГўВҖВҷd, and left
Her body tenantless. Thenceforth the tribes,
Who round were scatterГўВҖВҷd, gathГўВҖВҷring to that place
Assembled; for its strength was great, enclosГўВҖВҷd
On all parts by the fen. On those dead bones
They rearГўВҖВҷd themselves a city, for her sake,
Calling it Mantua, who first chose the spot,
Nor askГўВҖВҷd another omen for the name,
Wherein more numerous the people dwelt,
Ere CasalodiГўВҖВҷs madness by deceit
Was wrongГўВҖВҷd of Pinamonte. If thou hear
Henceforth another origin assignГўВҖВҷd
Of that my country, I forewarn thee now,
That falsehood none beguile thee of the truth.ГўВҖВқ

I answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңTeacher, I conclude thy words
So certain, that all else shall be to me
As embers lacking life. But now of these,
Who here proceed, instruct me, if thou see
Any that merit more especial note.
For thereon is my mind alone intent.ГўВҖВқ

He straight replied: ГўВҖВңThat spirit, from whose cheek
The beard sweeps oГўВҖВҷer his shoulders brown, what time
Graecia was emptied of her males, that scarce
The cradles were supplied, the seer was he
In Aulis, who with Calchas gave the sign
When first to cut the cable. Him they namГўВҖВҷd
Eurypilus: so sings my tragic strain,
In which majestic measure well thou knowГўВҖВҷst,
Who knowГўВҖВҷst it all. That other, round the loins
So slender of his shape, was Michael Scot,
PractisГўВҖВҷd in evГўВҖВҷry slight of magic wile.

ГўВҖВңGuido Bonatti see: Asdente mark,
Who now were willing, he had tended still
The thread and cordwain; and too late repents.

ГўВҖВңSee next the wretches, who the needle left,
The shuttle and the spindle, and became
Diviners: baneful witcheries they wrought
With images and herbs. But onward now:
For now doth Cain with fork of thorns confine
On either hemisphere, touching the wave
Beneath the towers of Seville. Yesternight
The moon was round. Thou mayst remember well:
For she good service did thee in the gloom
Of the deep wood.ГўВҖВқ This said, both onward movГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO XXI


Thus we from bridge to bridge, with other talk,
The which my drama cares not to rehearse,
PassГўВҖВҷd on; and to the summit reaching, stood
To view another gap, within the round
Of Malebolge, other bootless pangs.

Marvelous darkness shadowГўВҖВҷd oГўВҖВҷer the place.

In the VenetiansГўВҖВҷ arsenal as boils
Through wintry months tenacious pitch, to smear
Their unsound vessels; for thГўВҖВҷ inclement time
Sea-faring men restrains, and in that while
His bark one builds anew, another stops
The ribs of his, that hath made many a voyage;
One hammers at the prow, one at the poop;
This shapeth oars, that other cables twirls,
The mizen one repairs and main-sail rent
So not by force of fire but art divine
BoilГўВҖВҷd here a glutinous thick mass, that round
LimГўВҖВҷd all the shore beneath. I that beheld,
But therein nought distinguishГўВҖВҷd, save the surge,
RaisГўВҖВҷd by the boiling, in one mighty swell
Heave, and by turns subsiding and fall. While there
I fixГўВҖВҷd my ken below, ГўВҖВңMark! mark!ГўВҖВқ my guide
Exclaiming, drew me towards him from the place,
Wherein I stood. I turnГўВҖВҷd myself as one,
Impatient to behold that which beheld
He needs must shun, whom sudden fear unmans,
That he his flight delays not for the view.
Behind me I discernГўВҖВҷd a devil black,
That running, up advancГўВҖВҷd along the rock.
Ah! what fierce cruelty his look bespake!
In act how bitter did he seem, with wings
Buoyant outstretchГўВҖВҷd and feet of nimblest tread!
His shoulder proudly eminent and sharp
Was with a sinner chargГўВҖВҷd; by either haunch
He held him, the footГўВҖВҷs sinew griping fast.

ГўВҖВңYe of our bridge!ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңkeen-talonГўВҖВҷd fiends!
Lo! one of Santa ZitaГўВҖВҷs elders! Him
Whelm ye beneath, while I return for more.
That land hath store of such. All men are there,
Except Bonturo, barterers: of ГўВҖВҳnoГўВҖВҷ
For lucre there an ГўВҖВҳayeГўВҖВҷ is quickly made.ГўВҖВқ

Him dashing down, oГўВҖВҷer the rough rock he turnГўВҖВҷd,
Nor ever after thief a mastiff loosГўВҖВҷd
Sped with like eager haste. That other sank
And forthwith writhing to the surface rose.
But those dark demons, shrouded by the bridge,
Cried ГўВҖВңHere the hallowГўВҖВҷd visage saves not: here
Is other swimming than in SerchioГўВҖВҷs wave.
Wherefore if thou desire we rend thee not,
Take heed thou mount not oГўВҖВҷer the pitch.ГўВҖВқ This said,
They grappled him with more than hundred hooks,
And shouted: ГўВҖВңCoverГўВҖВҷd thou must sport thee here;
So, if thou canst, in secret mayst thou filch.ГўВҖВқ

EГўВҖВҷen thus the cook bestirs him, with his grooms,
To thrust the flesh into the caldron down
With flesh-hooks, that it float not on the top.

Me then my guide bespake: ГўВҖВңLest they descry,
That thou art here, behind a craggy rock
Bend low and screen thee; and whateГўВҖВҷer of force
Be offerГўВҖВҷd me, or insult, fear thou not:
For I am well advisГўВҖВҷd, who have been erst
In the like fray.ГўВҖВқ Beyond the bridgeГўВҖВҷs head
Therewith he passГўВҖВҷd, and reaching the sixth pier,
BehovГўВҖВҷd him then a forehead terror-proof.

With storm and fury, as when dogs rush forth
Upon the poor manГўВҖВҷs back, who suddenly
From whence he standeth makes his suit; so rushГўВҖВҷd
Those from beneath the arch, and against him
Their weapons all they pointed. He aloud:
ГўВҖВңBe none of you outrageous: ere your time
Dare seize me, come forth from amongst you one,

ГўВҖВңWho having heard my words, decide he then
If he shall tear these limbs.ГўВҖВқ They shouted loud,
ГўВҖВңGo, Malacoda!ГўВҖВқ Whereat one advancГўВҖВҷd,
The others standing firm, and as he came,
ГўВҖВңWhat may this turn avail him?ГўВҖВқ he exclaimГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңBelievГўВҖВҷst thou, Malacoda! I had come
Thus far from all your skirmishing secure,ГўВҖВқ
My teacher answered, ГўВҖВңwithout will divine
And destiny propitious? Pass we then
For so HeavenГўВҖВҷs pleasure is, that I should lead
Another through this savage wilderness.ГўВҖВқ

Forthwith so fell his pride, that he let drop
The instrument of torture at his feet,
And to the rest exclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңWe have no power
To strike him.ГўВҖВқ Then to me my guide: ГўВҖВңO thou!
Who on the bridge among the crags dost sit
Low crouching, safely now to me return.ГўВҖВқ

I rose, and towards him moved with speed: the fiends
Meantime all forward drew: me terror seizГўВҖВҷd
Lest they should break the compact they had made.
Thus issuing from Caprona, once I saw
ThГўВҖВҷ infantry dreading, lest his covenant
The foe should break; so close he hemmГўВҖВҷd them round.

I to my leaderГўВҖВҷs side adherГўВҖВҷd, mine eyes
With fixt and motionless observance bent
On their unkindly visage. They their hooks
Protruding, one the other thus bespake:
ГўВҖВңWilt thou I touch him on the hip?ГўВҖВқ To whom
Was answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңEven so; nor miss thy aim.ГўВҖВқ

But he, who was in confГўВҖВҷrence with my guide,
TurnГўВҖВҷd rapid round, and thus the demon spake:
ГўВҖВңStay, stay thee, Scarmiglione!ГўВҖВқ Then to us
He added: ГўВҖВңFurther footing to your step
This rock affords not, shiverГўВҖВҷd to the base
Of the sixth arch. But would you still proceed,
Up by this cavern go: not distant far,
Another rock will yield you passage safe.
Yesterday, later by five hours than now,
Twelve hundred threescore years and six had fillГўВҖВҷd
The circuit of their course, since here the way
Was broken. Thitherward I straight dispatch
Certain of these my scouts, who shall espy
If any on the surface bask. With them
Go ye: for ye shall find them nothing fell.
Come Alichino forth,ГўВҖВқ with that he cried,
ГўВҖВңAnd Calcabrina, and Cagnazzo thou!
The troop of ten let Barbariccia lead.
With Libicocco Draghinazzo haste,
FangГўВҖВҷd Ciriatto, Grafflacane fierce,
And Farfarello, and mad Rubicant.
Search ye around the bubbling tar. For these,
In safety lead them, where the other crag
Uninterrupted traverses the dens.ГўВҖВқ

I then: ГўВҖВңO master! what a sight is there!
Ah! without escort, journey we alone,
Which, if thou know the way, I covet not.
Unless thy prudence fail thee, dost not mark
How they do gnarl upon us, and their scowl
Threatens us present tortures?ГўВҖВқ He replied:
ГўВҖВңI charge thee fear not: let them, as they will,
Gnarl on: ГўВҖВҷt is but in token of their spite
Against the souls, who mourn in torment steepГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

To leftward oГўВҖВҷer the pier they turnГўВҖВҷd; but each
Had first between his teeth prest close the tongue,
Toward their leader for a signal looking,
Which he with sound obscene triumphant gave.




CANTO XXII


It hath been heretofore my chance to see
Horsemen with martial order shifting camp,
To onset sallying, or in muster rangГўВҖВҷd,
Or in retreat sometimes outstretchГўВҖВҷd for flight;
Light-armed squadrons and fleet foragers
Scouring thy plains, Arezzo! have I seen,
And clashing tournaments, and tilting jousts,
Now with the sound of trumpets, now of bells,
Tabors, or signals made from castled heights,
And with inventions multiform, our own,
Or introducГўВҖВҷd from foreign land; but neГўВҖВҷer
To such a strange recorder I beheld,
In evolution moving, horse nor foot,
Nor ship, that tackГўВҖВҷd by sign from land or star.

With the ten demons on our way we went;
Ah fearful company! but in the church
With saints, with gluttons at the tavernГўВҖВҷs mess.

Still earnest on the pitch I gazГўВҖВҷd, to mark
All things whateГўВҖВҷer the chasm containГўВҖВҷd, and those
Who burnГўВҖВҷd within. As dolphins, that, in sign
To mariners, heave high their arched backs,
That thence forewarnГўВҖВҷd they may advise to save
Their threatenГўВҖВҷd vessels; so, at intervals,
To ease the pain his back some sinner showГўВҖВҷd,
Then hid more nimbly than the lightning glance.

EГўВҖВҷen as the frogs, that of a watГўВҖВҷry moat
Stand at the brink, with the jaws only out,
Their feet and of the trunk all else concealed,
Thus on each part the sinners stood, but soon
As Barbariccia was at hand, so they
Drew back under the wave. I saw, and yet
My heart doth stagger, one, that waited thus,
As it befalls that oft one frog remains,
While the next springs away: and Graffiacan,
Who of the fiends was nearest, grappling seizГўВҖВҷd
His clotted locks, and draggГўВҖВҷd him sprawling up,
That he appearГўВҖВҷd to me an otter. Each
Already by their names I knew, so well
When they were chosen, I observГўВҖВҷd, and markГўВҖВҷd
How one the other callГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңO Rubicant!
See that his hide thou with thy talons flay,ГўВҖВқ
Shouted together all the cursed crew.

Then I: ГўВҖВңInform thee, master! if thou may,
What wretched soul is this, on whom their hand
His foes have laid.ГўВҖВқ My leader to his side
ApproachГўВҖВҷd, and whence he came inquirГўВҖВҷd, to whom
Was answerГўВҖВҷd thus: ГўВҖВңBorn in NavarreГўВҖВҷs domain
My mother placГўВҖВҷd me in a lordГўВҖВҷs retinue,
For she had borne me to a losel vile,
A spendthrift of his substance and himself.
The good king Thibault after that I servГўВҖВҷd,
To peculating here my thoughts were turnГўВҖВҷd,
Whereof I give account in this dire heat.ГўВҖВқ

Straight Ciriatto, from whose mouth a tusk
Issued on either side, as from a boar,
Ript him with one of these. ГўВҖВҷTwixt evil claws
The mouse had fallГўВҖВҷn: but Barbariccia cried,
Seizing him with both arms: ГўВҖВңStand thou apart,
While I do fix him on my prong transpiercГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ
Then added, turning to my guide his face,
ГўВҖВңInquire of him, if more thou wish to learn,
Ere he again be rent.ГўВҖВқ My leader thus:
ГўВҖВңThen tell us of the partners in thy guilt;
Knowest thou any sprung of Latian land
Under the tar?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI parted,ГўВҖВқ he replied,
ГўВҖВңBut now from one, who sojournГўВҖВҷd not far thence;
So were I under shelter now with him!
Nor hook nor talon then should scare me more.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”.

ГўВҖВңToo long we suffer,ГўВҖВқ Libicocco cried,
Then, darting forth a prong, seizГўВҖВҷd on his arm,
And mangled bore away the sinewy part.
Him Draghinazzo by his thighs beneath
Would next have caught, whence angrily their chief,
Turning on all sides round, with threatГўВҖВҷning brow
RestrainГўВҖВҷd them. When their strife a little ceasГўВҖВҷd,
Of him, who yet was gazing on his wound,
My teacher thus without delay inquirГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңWho was the spirit, from whom by evil hap
Parting, as thou has told, thou camГўВҖВҷst to shore?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңIt was the friar Gomita,ГўВҖВқ he rejoinГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңHe of Gallura, vessel of all guile,
Who had his masterГўВҖВҷs enemies in hand,
And usГўВҖВҷd them so that they commend him well.
Money he took, and them at large dismissГўВҖВҷd.
So he reports: and in each other charge
Committed to his keeping, playГўВҖВҷd the part
Of barterer to the height: with him doth herd
The chief of Logodoro, Michel Zanche.
Sardinia is a theme, whereof their tongue
Is never weary. Out! alas! behold
That other, how he grins! More would I say,
But tremble lest he mean to maul me sore.ГўВҖВқ

Their captain then to Farfarello turning,
Who rollГўВҖВҷd his moony eyes in act to strike,
RebukГўВҖВҷd him thus: ГўВҖВңOff! cursed bird! Avaunt!ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”

ГўВҖВңIf ye desire to see or hear,ГўВҖВқ he thus
Quaking with dread resumГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңor Tuscan spirits
Or Lombard, I will cause them to appear.
Meantime let these ill talons bate their fury,
So that no vengeance they may fear from them,
And I, remaining in this self-same place,
Will for myself but one, make sevГўВҖВҷn appear,
When my shrill whistle shall be heard; for so
Our custom is to call each other up.ГўВҖВқ

Cagnazzo at that word deriding grinnГўВҖВҷd,
Then waggГўВҖВҷd the head and spake: ГўВҖВңHear his device,
Mischievous as he is, to plunge him down.ГўВҖВқ

Whereto he thus, who failГўВҖВҷd not in rich store
Of nice-wove toils; ГўВҖВңMischief forsooth extreme,
Meant only to procure myself more woe!ГўВҖВқ

No longer Alichino then refrainГўВҖВҷd,
But thus, the rest gainsaying, him bespake:
ГўВҖВңIf thou do cast thee down, I not on foot
Will chase thee, but above the pitch will beat
My plumes. Quit we the vantage ground, and let
The bank be as a shield, that we may see
If singly thou prevail against us all.ГўВҖВқ

Now, reader, of new sport expect to hear!

They each one turnГўВҖВҷd his eyes to the other shore,
He first, who was the hardest to persuade.
The spirit of Navarre chose well his time,
Planted his feet on land, and at one leap
Escaping disappointed their resolve.

Them quick resentment stung, but him the most,
Who was the cause of failure; in pursuit
He therefore sped, exclaiming: ГўВҖВңThou art caught.ГўВҖВқ

But little it availГўВҖВҷd: terror outstrippГўВҖВҷd
His following flight: the other plungГўВҖВҷd beneath,
And he with upward pinion raisГўВҖВҷd his breast:
EГўВҖВҷen thus the water-fowl, when she perceives
The falcon near, dives instant down, while he
EnragГўВҖВҷd and spent retires. That mockery
In Calcabrina fury stirrГўВҖВҷd, who flew
After him, with desire of strife inflamГўВҖВҷd;
And, for the barterer had ГўВҖВҷscapГўВҖВҷd, so turnГўВҖВҷd
His talons on his comrade. OГўВҖВҷer the dyke
In grapple close they joinГўВҖВҷd; but the other provГўВҖВҷd
A goshawk able to rend well his foe;

And in the boiling lake both fell. The heat
Was umpire soon between them, but in vain
To lift themselves they strove, so fast were glued
Their pennons. Barbariccia, as the rest,
That chance lamenting, four in flight dispatchГўВҖВҷd
From the other coast, with all their weapons armГўВҖВҷd.
They, to their post on each side speedily
Descending, stretchГўВҖВҷd their hooks toward the fiends,
Who flounderГўВҖВҷd, inly burning from their scars:
And we departing left them to that broil.




CANTO XXIII


In silence and in solitude we went,
One first, the other following his steps,
As minor friars journeying on their road.

The present fray had turnГўВҖВҷd my thoughts to muse
Upon old AesopГўВҖВҷs fable, where he told
What fate unto the mouse and frog befell.
For language hath not sounds more like in sense,
Than are these chances, if the origin
And end of each be heedfully comparГўВҖВҷd.
And as one thought bursts from another forth,
So afterward from that another sprang,
Which added doubly to my former fear.
For thus I reasonГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңThese through us have been
So foilГўВҖВҷd, with loss and mockГўВҖВҷry so complete,
As needs must sting them sore. If anger then
Be to their evil will conjoinГўВҖВҷd, more fell
They shall pursue us, than the savage hound
Snatches the leveret, panting ГўВҖВҷtwixt his jaws.ГўВҖВқ

Already I perceivГўВҖВҷd my hair stand all
On end with terror, and lookГўВҖВҷd eager back.

ГўВҖВңTeacher,ГўВҖВқ I thus began, ГўВҖВңif speedily
Thyself and me thou hide not, much I dread
Those evil talons. Even now behind
They urge us: quick imagination works
So forcibly, that I already feel them.ГўВҖВқ

He answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңWere I formГўВҖВҷd of leaded glass,
I should not sooner draw unto myself
Thy outward image, than I now imprint
That from within. This moment came thy thoughts
Presented before mine, with similar act
And countГўВҖВҷnance similar, so that from both
I one design have framГўВҖВҷd. If the right coast
Incline so much, that we may thence descend
Into the other chasm, we shall escape
Secure from this imagined pursuit.ГўВҖВқ

He had not spoke his purpose to the end,
When I from far beheld them with spread wings
Approach to take us. Suddenly my guide
Caught me, evГўВҖВҷn as a mother that from sleep
Is by the noise arousГўВҖВҷd, and near her sees
The climbing fires, who snatches up her babe
And flies neГўВҖВҷer pausing, careful more of him
Than of herself, that but a single vest
Clings round her limbs. Down from the jutting beach
Supine he cast him, to that pendent rock,
Which closes on one part the other chasm.

Never ran water with such hurrying pace
Adown the tube to turn a landmillГўВҖВҷs wheel,
When nearest it approaches to the spokes,
As then along that edge my master ran,
Carrying me in his bosom, as a child,
Not a companion. Scarcely had his feet
ReachГўВҖВҷd to the lowest of the bed beneath,

When over us the steep they reachГўВҖВҷd; but fear
In him was none; for that high Providence,
Which placГўВҖВҷd them ministers of the fifth foss,
Power of departing thence took from them all.

There in the depth we saw a painted tribe,
Who pacГўВҖВҷd with tardy steps around, and wept,
Faint in appearance and oГўВҖВҷercome with toil.
Caps had they on, with hoods, that fell low down
Before their eyes, in fashion like to those
Worn by the monks in Cologne. Their outside
Was overlaid with gold, dazzling to view,
But leaden all within, and of such weight,
That FrederickГўВҖВҷs comparГўВҖВҷd to these were straw.
Oh, everlasting wearisome attire!

We yet once more with them together turnГўВҖВҷd
To leftward, on their dismal moan intent.
But by the weight oppressГўВҖВҷd, so slowly came
The fainting people, that our company
Was changГўВҖВҷd at every movement of the step.

Whence I my guide addressГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңSee that thou find
Some spirit, whose name may by his deeds be known,
And to that end look round thee as thou goГўВҖВҷst.ГўВҖВқ

Then one, who understood the Tuscan voice,
Cried after us aloud: ГўВҖВңHold in your feet,
Ye who so swiftly speed through the dusk air.
Perchance from me thou shalt obtain thy wish.ГўВҖВқ

Whereat my leader, turning, me bespake:
ГўВҖВңPause, and then onward at their pace proceed.ГўВҖВқ

I staid, and saw two Spirits in whose look
Impatient eagerness of mind was markГўВҖВҷd
To overtake me; but the load they bare
And narrow path retarded their approach.

Soon as arrivГўВҖВҷd, they with an eye askance
PerusГўВҖВҷd me, but spake not: then turning each
To other thus conferring said: ГўВҖВңThis one
Seems, by the action of his throat, alive.
And, be they dead, what privilege allows
They walk unmantled by the cumbrous stole?ГўВҖВқ

Then thus to me: ГўВҖВңTuscan, who visitest
The college of the mourning hypocrites,
Disdain not to instruct us who thou art.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBy ArnoГўВҖВҷs pleasant stream,ГўВҖВқ I thus replied,
ГўВҖВңIn the great city I was bred and grew,
And wear the body I have ever worn.
but who are ye, from whom such mighty grief,
As now I witness, courseth down your cheeks?
What torment breaks forth in this bitter woe?ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңOur bonnets gleaming bright with orange hue,ГўВҖВқ
One of them answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңare so leaden gross,
That with their weight they make the balances
To crack beneath them. Joyous friars we were,
BolognaГўВҖВҷs natives, Catalano I,
He Loderingo namГўВҖВҷd, and by thy land
Together taken, as men used to take
A single and indifferent arbiter,
To reconcile their strifes. How there we sped,
GardingoГўВҖВҷs vicinage can best declare.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO friars!ГўВҖВқ I began, ГўВҖВңyour miseriesГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВқ
But there brake off, for one had caught my eye,
FixГўВҖВҷd to a cross with three stakes on the ground:
He, when he saw me, writhГўВҖВҷd himself, throughout
Distorted, ruffling with deep sighs his beard.
And Catalano, who thereof was ГўВҖВҷware,

Thus spake: ГўВҖВңThat pierced spirit, whom intent
Thou viewГўВҖВҷst, was he who gave the Pharisees
Counsel, that it were fitting for one man
To suffer for the people. He doth lie
Transverse; nor any passes, but him first
Behoves make feeling trial how each weighs.
In straits like this along the foss are placГўВҖВҷd
The father of his consort, and the rest
Partakers in that council, seed of ill
And sorrow to the Jews.ГўВҖВқ I noted then,
How Virgil gazГўВҖВҷd with wonder upon him,
Thus abjectly extended on the cross
In banishment eternal. To the friar
He next his words addressГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңWe pray ye tell,
If so be lawful, whether on our right
Lies any opening in the rock, whereby
We both may issue hence, without constraint
On the dark angels, that compellГўВҖВҷd they come
To lead us from this depth.ГўВҖВқ He thus replied:
ГўВҖВңNearer than thou dost hope, there is a rock
From the next circle moving, which oГўВҖВҷersteps
Each vale of horror, save that here his cope
Is shatterГўВҖВҷd. By the ruin ye may mount:
For on the side it slants, and most the height
Rises below.ГўВҖВқ With head bent down awhile
My leader stood, then spake: ГўВҖВңHe warnГўВҖВҷd us ill,
Who yonder hangs the sinners on his hook.ГўВҖВқ

To whom the friar: ГўВҖВңAt Bologna erst
I many vices of the devil heard,
Among the rest was said, ГўВҖВҳHe is a liar,
And the father of lies!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ When he had spoke,
My leader with large strides proceeded on,
Somewhat disturbГўВҖВҷd with anger in his look.

I therefore left the spirits heavy laden,
And following, his beloved footsteps markГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO XXIV


In the yearГўВҖВҷs early nonage, when the sun
Tempers his tresses in AquariusГўВҖВҷ urn,
And now towards equal day the nights recede,
When as the rime upon the earth puts on
Her dazzling sisterГўВҖВҷs image, but not long
Her milder sway endures, then riseth up
The village hind, whom fails his wintry store,
And looking out beholds the plain around
All whitenГўВҖВҷd, whence impatiently he smites
His thighs, and to his hut returning in,
There paces to and fro, wailing his lot,
As a discomfited and helpless man;
Then comes he forth again, and feels new hope
Spring in his bosom, finding eГўВҖВҷen thus soon
The world hath changГўВҖВҷd its countГўВҖВҷnance, grasps his crook,
And forth to pasture drives his little flock:
So me my guide disheartenГўВҖВҷd when I saw
His troubled forehead, and so speedily
That ill was curГўВҖВҷd; for at the fallen bridge
Arriving, towards me with a look as sweet,
He turnГўВҖВҷd him back, as that I first beheld
At the steep mountainГўВҖВҷs foot. Regarding well
The ruin, and some counsel first maintainГўВҖВҷd
With his own thought, he openГўВҖВҷd wide his arm
And took me up. As one, who, while he works,
Computes his labourГўВҖВҷs issue, that he seems
Still to foresee the effect, so lifting me
Up to the summit of one peak, he fixГўВҖВҷd
His eye upon another. ГўВҖВңGrapple that,ГўВҖВқ
Said he, ГўВҖВңbut first make proof, if it be such
As will sustain thee.ГўВҖВқ For one cappГўВҖВҷd with lead
This were no journey. Scarcely he, though light,
And I, though onward pushГўВҖВҷd from crag to crag,
Could mount. And if the precinct of this coast
Were not less ample than the last, for him
I know not, but my strength had surely failГўВҖВҷd.
But Malebolge all toward the mouth
Inclining of the nethermost abyss,
The site of every valley hence requires,
That one side upward slope, the other fall.

At length the point of our descent we reachГўВҖВҷd
From the last flag: soon as to that arrivГўВҖВҷd,
So was the breath exhausted from my lungs,
I could no further, but did seat me there.

ГўВҖВңNow needs thy best of man;ГўВҖВқ so spake my guide:
ГўВҖВңFor not on downy plumes, nor under shade
Of canopy reposing, fame is won,
Without which whosoeГўВҖВҷer consumes his days
Leaveth such vestige of himself on earth,
As smoke in air or foam upon the wave.
Thou therefore rise: vanish thy weariness
By the mindГўВҖВҷs effort, in each struggle formГўВҖВҷd
To vanquish, if she suffer not the weight
Of her corporeal frame to crush her down.
A longer ladder yet remains to scale.
From these to have escapГўВҖВҷd sufficeth not.
If well thou note me, profit by my words.ГўВҖВқ

I straightway rose, and showГўВҖВҷd myself less spent
Than I in truth did feel me. ГўВҖВңOn,ГўВҖВқ I cried,
ГўВҖВңFor I am stout and fearless.ГўВҖВқ Up the rock
Our way we held, more rugged than before,
Narrower and steeper far to climb. From talk
I ceasГўВҖВҷd not, as we journeyГўВҖВҷd, so to seem
Least faint; whereat a voice from the other foss
Did issue forth, for uttГўВҖВҷrance suited ill.
Though on the arch that crosses there I stood,
What were the words I knew not, but who spake
SeemГўВҖВҷd movГўВҖВҷd in anger. Down I stoopГўВҖВҷd to look,
But my quick eye might reach not to the depth
For shrouding darkness; wherefore thus I spake:
ГўВҖВңTo the next circle, Teacher, bend thy steps,
And from the wall dismount we; for as hence
I hear and understand not, so I see
Beneath, and naught discern.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңI answer not,ГўВҖВқ
Said he, ГўВҖВңbut by the deed. To fair request
Silent performance maketh best return.ГўВҖВқ

We from the bridgeГўВҖВҷs head descended, where
To the eighth mound it joins, and then the chasm
Opening to view, I saw a crowd within
Of serpents terrible, so strange of shape
And hideous, that remembrance in my veins
Yet shrinks the vital current. Of her sands
Let Lybia vaunt no more: if Jaculus,
Pareas and Chelyder be her brood,
Cenchris and Amphisboena, plagues so dire
Or in such numbers swarming neГўВҖВҷer she shewГўВҖВҷd,
Not with all Ethiopia, and whateГўВҖВҷer
Above the Erythraean sea is spawnГўВҖВҷd.

Amid this dread exuberance of woe
Ran naked spirits wingГўВҖВҷd with horrid fear,
Nor hope had they of crevice where to hide,
Or heliotrope to charm them out of view.
With serpents were their hands behind them bound,
Which through their reins infixГўВҖВҷd the tail and head
Twisted in folds before. And lo! on one
Near to our side, darted an adder up,
And, where the neck is on the shoulders tied,
TranspiercГўВҖВҷd him. Far more quickly than eГўВҖВҷer pen
Wrote O or I, he kindled, burnГўВҖВҷd, and changГўВҖВҷd
To ashes, all pourГўВҖВҷd out upon the earth.
When there dissolvГўВҖВҷd he lay, the dust again
UprollГўВҖВҷd spontaneous, and the self-same form
Instant resumed. So mighty sages tell,
The Arabian Phoenix, when five hundred years
Have well nigh circled, dies, and springs forthwith
Renascent. Blade nor herb throughout his life
He tastes, but tears of frankincense alone
And odorous amomum: swaths of nard
And myrrh his funeral shroud. As one that falls,
He knows not how, by force demoniac draggГўВҖВҷd
To earth, or through obstruction fettering up
In chains invisible the powers of man,
Who, risen from his trance, gazeth around,
BewilderГўВҖВҷd with the monstrous agony
He hath endurГўВҖВҷd, and wildly staring sighs;
So stood aghast the sinner when he rose.

Oh! how severe GodГўВҖВҷs judgment, that deals out
Such blows in stormy vengeance! Who he was
My teacher next inquirГўВҖВҷd, and thus in few
He answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңVanni Fucci am I callГўВҖВҷd,
Not long since rained down from Tuscany
To this dire gullet. Me the beastial life
And not the human pleasГўВҖВҷd, mule that I was,
Who in Pistoia found my worthy den.ГўВҖВқ

I then to Virgil: ГўВҖВңBid him stir not hence,
And ask what crime did thrust him hither: once
A man I knew him choleric and bloody.ГўВҖВқ

The sinner heard and feignГўВҖВҷd not, but towards me
His mind directing and his face, wherein
Was dismal shame depicturГўВҖВҷd, thus he spake:
ГўВҖВңIt grieves me more to have been caught by thee
In this sad plight, which thou beholdest, than
When I was taken from the other life.
I have no power permitted to deny
What thou inquirest.ГўВҖВқ I am doomГўВҖВҷd thus low
To dwell, for that the sacristy by me
Was rifled of its goodly ornaments,
And with the guilt another falsely charged.
But that thou mayst not joy to see me thus,
So as thou eГўВҖВҷer shalt ГўВҖВҷscape this darksome realm
Open thine ears and hear what I forebode.
Reft of the Neri first Pistoia pines,
Then Florence changeth citizens and laws.
From Valdimagra, drawn by wrathful Mars,
A vapour rises, wrapt in turbid mists,
And sharp and eager driveth on the storm
With arrowy hurtling oГўВҖВҷer PicenoГўВҖВҷs field,
Whence suddenly the cloud shall burst, and strike
Each helpless Bianco prostrate to the ground.
This have I told, that grief may rend thy heart.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXV


When he had spoke, the sinner raisГўВҖВҷd his hands
Pointed in mockery, and cried: ГўВҖВңTake them, God!
I level them at thee!ГўВҖВқ From that day forth
The serpents were my friends; for round his neck
One of then rolling twisted, as it said,
ГўВҖВңBe silent, tongue!ГўВҖВқ Another to his arms
Upgliding, tied them, riveting itself
So close, it took from them the power to move.

Pistoia! Ah Pistoia! why dost doubt
To turn thee into ashes, cumbГўВҖВҷring earth
No longer, since in evil act so far
Thou hast outdone thy seed? I did not mark,
Through all the gloomy circles of the abyss,
Spirit, that swellГўВҖВҷd so proudly ГўВҖВҷgainst his God,
Not him, who headlong fell from Thebes. He fled,
Nor utterГўВҖВҷd more; and after him there came
A centaur full of fury, shouting, ГўВҖВңWhere
Where is the caitiff?ГўВҖВқ On MaremmaГўВҖВҷs marsh
Swarm not the serpent tribe, as on his haunch
They swarmГўВҖВҷd, to where the human face begins.
Behind his head upon the shoulders lay,
With open wings, a dragon breathing fire
On whomsoeГўВҖВҷer he met. To me my guide:
ГўВҖВңCacus is this, who underneath the rock
Of Aventine spread oft a lake of blood.
He, from his brethren parted, here must tread
A different journey, for his fraudful theft
Of the great herd, that near him stallГўВҖВҷd; whence found
His felon deeds their end, beneath the mace
Of stout Alcides, that perchance laid on
A hundred blows, and not the tenth was felt.ГўВҖВқ

While yet he spake, the centaur sped away:
And under us three spirits came, of whom
Nor I nor he was ware, till they exclaimГўВҖВҷd;
ГўВҖВңSay who are ye?ГўВҖВқ We then brake off discourse,
Intent on these alone. I knew them not;
But, as it chanceth oft, befell, that one
Had need to name another. ГўВҖВңWhere,ГўВҖВқ said he,
ГўВҖВңDoth Cianfa lurk?ГўВҖВқ I, for a sign my guide
Should stand attentive, placГўВҖВҷd against my lips
The finger lifted. If, O reader! now
Thou be not apt to credit what I tell,
No marvel; for myself do scarce allow
The witness of mine eyes. But as I looked
Toward them, lo! a serpent with six feet
Springs forth on one, and fastens full upon him:
His midmost graspГўВҖВҷd the belly, a forefoot
SeizГўВҖВҷd on each arm (while deep in either cheek
He fleshГўВҖВҷd his fangs); the hinder on the thighs
Were spread, ГўВҖВҷtwixt which the tail inserted curlГўВҖВҷd
Upon the reins behind. Ivy neГўВҖВҷer claspГўВҖВҷd
A dodderГўВҖВҷd oak, as round the otherГўВҖВҷs limbs
The hideous monster intertwinГўВҖВҷd his own.
Then, as they both had been of burning wax,
Each melted into other, mingling hues,
That which was either now was seen no more.
Thus up the shrinking paper, ere it burns,
A brown tint glides, not turning yet to black,
And the clean white expires. The other two
LookГўВҖВҷd on exclaiming: ГўВҖВңAh, how dost thou change,
Agnello! See! Thou art nor double now,

ГўВҖВңNor only one.ГўВҖВқ The two heads now became
One, and two figures blended in one form
AppearГўВҖВҷd, where both were lost. Of the four lengths
Two arms were made: the belly and the chest
The thighs and legs into such members changГўВҖВҷd,
As never eye hath seen. Of former shape
All trace was vanishГўВҖВҷd. Two yet neither seemГўВҖВҷd
That image miscreate, and so passГўВҖВҷd on
With tardy steps. As underneath the scourge
Of the fierce dog-star, that lays bare the fields,
Shifting from brake to brake, the lizard seems
A flash of lightning, if he thwart the road,
So toward thГўВҖВҷ entrails of the other two
Approaching seemГўВҖВҷd, an adder all on fire,
As the dark pepper-grain, livid and swart.
In that part, whence our life is nourishГўВҖВҷd first,
One he transpiercГўВҖВҷd; then down before him fell
StretchГўВҖВҷd out. The pierced spirit lookГўВҖВҷd on him
But spake not; yea stood motionless and yawnГўВҖВҷd,
As if by sleep or fevГўВҖВҷrous fit assailГўВҖВҷd.
He eyГўВҖВҷd the serpent, and the serpent him.
One from the wound, the other from the mouth
BreathГўВҖВҷd a thick smoke, whose vapГўВҖВҷry columns joinГўВҖВҷd.

Lucan in mute attention now may hear,
Nor thy disastrous fate, Sabellus! tell,
Nor shine, Nasidius! Ovid now be mute.
What if in warbling fiction he record
Cadmus and Arethusa, to a snake
Him changГўВҖВҷd, and her into a fountain clear,
I envy not; for never face to face
Two natures thus transmuted did he sing,
Wherein both shapes were ready to assume
The otherГўВҖВҷs substance. They in mutual guise
So answerГўВҖВҷd, that the serpent split his train
Divided to a fork, and the piercГўВҖВҷd spirit
Drew close his steps together, legs and thighs
Compacted, that no sign of juncture soon
Was visible: the tail disparted took
The figure which the spirit lost, its skin
SoftГўВҖВҷning, his indurated to a rind.
The shoulders next I markГўВҖВҷd, that entГўВҖВҷring joinГўВҖВҷd
The monsterГўВҖВҷs arm-pits, whose two shorter feet
So lengthenГўВҖВҷd, as the otherГўВҖВҷs dwindling shrunk.
The feet behind then twisting up became
That part that man conceals, which in the wretch
Was cleft in twain. While both the shadowy smoke
With a new colour veils, and generates
ThГўВҖВҷ excrescent pile on one, peeling it off
From thГўВҖВҷ other body, lo! upon his feet
One upright rose, and prone the other fell.
Not yet their glaring and malignant lamps
Were shifted, though each feature changГўВҖВҷd beneath.
Of him who stood erect, the mounting face
Retreated towards the temples, and what there
Superfluous matter came, shot out in ears
From the smooth cheeks, the rest, not backward draggГўВҖВҷd,
Of its excess did shape the nose; and swellГўВҖВҷd
Into due size protuberant the lips.
He, on the earth who lay, meanwhile extends
His sharpenГўВҖВҷd visage, and draws down the ears
Into the head, as doth the slug his horns.
His tongue continuous before and apt
For uttГўВҖВҷrance, severs; and the otherГўВҖВҷs fork
Closing unites. That done the smoke was laid.
The soul, transformГўВҖВҷd into the brute, glides off,
Hissing along the vale, and after him
The other talking sputters; but soon turnГўВҖВҷd
His new-grown shoulders on him, and in few
Thus to another spake: ГўВҖВңAlong this path
Crawling, as I have done, speed Buoso now!ГўВҖВқ

So saw I fluctuate in successive change
ThГўВҖВҷ unsteady ballast of the seventh hold:
And here if aught my tongue have swervГўВҖВҷd, events
So strange may be its warrant. OГўВҖВҷer mine eyes
Confusion hung, and on my thoughts amaze.

Yet ГўВҖВҷscapГўВҖВҷd they not so covertly, but well
I markГўВҖВҷd Sciancato: he alone it was
Of the three first that came, who changГўВҖВҷd not: thou,
The otherГўВҖВҷs fate, Gaville, still dost rue.




CANTO XXVI


Florence exult! for thou so mightily
Hast thriven, that oГўВҖВҷer land and sea thy wings
Thou beatest, and thy name spreads over hell!
Among the plundГўВҖВҷrers such the three I found
Thy citizens, whence shame to me thy son,
And no proud honour to thyself redounds.

But if our minds, when dreaming near the dawn,
Are of the truth presageful, thou ere long
Shalt feel what Prato, (not to say the rest)
Would fain might come upon thee; and that chance
Were in good time, if it befell thee now.
Would so it were, since it must needs befall!
For as time wears me, I shall grieve the more.

We from the depth departed; and my guide
Remounting scalГўВҖВҷd the flinty steps, which late
We downward tracГўВҖВҷd, and drew me up the steep.
Pursuing thus our solitary way
Among the crags and splinters of the rock,
Sped not our feet without the help of hands.

Then sorrow seizГўВҖВҷd me, which eГўВҖВҷen now revives,
As my thought turns again to what I saw,
And, more than I am wont, I rein and curb
The powers of nature in me, lest they run
Where Virtue guides not; that if aught of good
My gentle star, or something better gave me,
I envy not myself the precious boon.

As in that season, when the sun least veils
His face that lightens all, what time the fly
Gives way to the shrill gnat, the peasant then
Upon some cliff reclinГўВҖВҷd, beneath him sees
Fire-flies innumerous spangling oГўВҖВҷer the vale,
Vineyard or tilth, where his day-labour lies:
With flames so numberless throughout its space
Shone the eighth chasm, apparent, when the depth
Was to my view exposГўВҖВҷd. As he, whose wrongs
The bears avengГўВҖВҷd, at its departure saw
ElijahГўВҖВҷs chariot, when the steeds erect
RaisГўВҖВҷd their steep flight for heavГўВҖВҷn; his eyes meanwhile,
Straining pursuГўВҖВҷd them, till the flame alone
Upsoaring like a misty speck he kennГўВҖВҷd;
EГўВҖВҷen thus along the gulf moves every flame,
A sinner so enfolded close in each,
That none exhibits token of the theft.

Upon the bridge I forward bent to look,
And graspГўВҖВҷd a flinty mass, or else had fallГўВҖВҷn,
Though pushГўВҖВҷd not from the height. The guide, who markГўВҖВҷd
How I did gaze attentive, thus began:

ГўВҖВңWithin these ardours are the spirits, each
SwathГўВҖВҷd in confining fire.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMaster, thy word,ГўВҖВқ
I answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңhath assurГўВҖВҷd me; yet I deemГўВҖВҷd
Already of the truth, already wishГўВҖВҷd
To ask thee, who is in yon fire, that comes
So parted at the summit, as it seemГўВҖВҷd
Ascending from that funeral pile, where lay
The Theban brothers?ГўВҖВқ He replied: ГўВҖВңWithin
Ulysses there and Diomede endure
Their penal tortures, thus to vengeance now
Together hasting, as erewhile to wrath.
These in the flame with ceaseless groans deplore
The ambush of the horse, that openГўВҖВҷd wide
A portal for that goodly seed to pass,
Which sowГўВҖВҷd imperial Rome; nor less the guile
Lament they, whence of her Achilles ГўВҖВҷreft
Deidamia yet in death complains.
And there is rued the stratagem, that Troy
Of her Palladium spoilГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңIf they have power
Of uttГўВҖВҷrance from within these sparks,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңO master! think my prayer a thousand fold
In repetition urgГўВҖВҷd, that thou vouchsafe
To pause, till here the horned flame arrive.
See, how toward it with desire I bend.ГўВҖВқ

He thus: ГўВҖВңThy prayer is worthy of much praise,
And I accept it therefore: but do thou
Thy tongue refrain: to question them be mine,
For I divine thy wish: and they perchance,
For they were Greeks, might shun discourse with thee.ГўВҖВқ

When there the flame had come, where time and place
SeemГўВҖВҷd fitting to my guide, he thus began:
ГўВҖВңO ye, who dwell two spirits in one fire!
If living I of you did merit aught,
WhateГўВҖВҷer the measure were of that desert,
When in the world my lofty strain I pourГўВҖВҷd,
Move ye not on, till one of you unfold
In what clime death oГўВҖВҷertook him self-destroyГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

Of the old flame forthwith the greater horn
Began to roll, murmuring, as a fire
That labours with the wind, then to and fro
Wagging the top, as a tongue uttering sounds,
Threw out its voice, and spake: ГўВҖВңWhen I escapГўВҖВҷd
From Circe, who beyond a circling year
Had held me near Caieta, by her charms,
Ere thus Aeneas yet had namГўВҖВҷd the shore,
Nor fondness for my son, nor reverence
Of my old father, nor return of love,
That should have crownГўВҖВҷd Penelope with joy,
Could overcome in me the zeal I had
TГўВҖВҷ explore the world, and search the ways of life,
ManГўВҖВҷs evil and his virtue. Forth I sailГўВҖВҷd
Into the deep illimitable main,
With but one bark, and the small faithful band
That yet cleavГўВҖВҷd to me. As Iberia far,
Far as Morocco either shore I saw,
And the Sardinian and each isle beside
Which round that ocean bathes. Tardy with age
Were I and my companions, when we came
To the strait pass, where Hercules ordainГўВҖВҷd
The boundГўВҖВҷries not to be oГўВҖВҷersteppГўВҖВҷd by man.
The walls of Seville to my right I left,
On the other hand already Ceuta past.
ГўВҖВңO brothers!ГўВҖВқ I began, ГўВҖВңwho to the west
Through perils without number now have reachГўВҖВҷd,
To this the short remaining watch, that yet
Our senses have to wake, refuse not proof
Of the unpeopled world, following the track
Of Phoebus. Call to mind from whence we sprang:
Ye were not formГўВҖВҷd to live the life of brutes
But virtue to pursue and knowledge high.ГўВҖВқ
With these few words I sharpenГўВҖВҷd for the voyage
The mind of my associates, that I then
Could scarcely have withheld them. To the dawn
Our poop we turnГўВҖВҷd, and for the witless flight
Made our oars wings, still gaining on the left.
Each star of the other pole night now beheld,
And ours so low, that from the ocean-floor
It rose not. Five times re-illumГўВҖВҷd, as oft
VanishГўВҖВҷd the light from underneath the moon
Since the deep way we enterГўВҖВҷd, when from far
AppearГўВҖВҷd a mountain dim, loftiest methought
Of all I eГўВҖВҷer beheld. Joy seizГўВҖВҷd us straight,
But soon to mourning changed. From the new land
A whirlwind sprung, and at her foremost side
Did strike the vessel. Thrice it whirlГўВҖВҷd her round
With all the waves, the fourth time lifted up
The poop, and sank the prow: so fate decreed:
And over us the booming billow closГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XVII


Now upward rose the flame, and stillГўВҖВҷd its light
To speak no more, and now passГўВҖВҷd on with leave
From the mild poet gainГўВҖВҷd, when following came
Another, from whose top a sound confusГўВҖВҷd,
Forth issuing, drew our eyes that way to look.

As the Sicilian bull, that rightfully
His cries first echoed, who had shapГўВҖВҷd its mould,
Did so rebellow, with the voice of him
Tormented, that the brazen monster seemГўВҖВҷd
PiercГўВҖВҷd through with pain; thus while no way they found
Nor avenue immediate through the flame,
Into its language turnГўВҖВҷd the dismal words:
But soon as they had won their passage forth,
Up from the point, which vibrating obeyГўВҖВҷd
Their motion at the tongue, these sounds we heard:
ГўВҖВңO thou! to whom I now direct my voice!
That lately didst exclaim in Lombard phrase,

ГўВҖВҳDepart thou, I solicit thee no more,ГўВҖВҷ
Though somewhat tardy I perchance arrive
Let it not irk thee here to pause awhile,
And with me parley: lo! it irks not me
And yet I burn. If but eГўВҖВҷen now thou fall
into this blind world, from that pleasant land
Of Latium, whence I draw my sum of guilt,
Tell me if those, who in Romagna dwell,
Have peace or war. For of the mountains there
Was I, betwixt Urbino and the height,
Whence Tyber first unlocks his mighty flood.ГўВҖВқ

Leaning I listenГўВҖВҷd yet with heedful ear,
When, as he touchГўВҖВҷd my side, the leader thus:
ГўВҖВңSpeak thou: he is a Latian.ГўВҖВқ My reply
Was ready, and I spake without delay:

ГўВҖВңO spirit! who art hidden here below!
Never was thy Romagna without war
In her proud tyrantsГўВҖВҷ bosoms, nor is now:
But open war there left I none. The state,
Ravenna hath maintainГўВҖВҷd this many a year,
Is steadfast. There PolentaГўВҖВҷs eagle broods,
And in his broad circumference of plume
OГўВҖВҷershadows Cervia. The green talons grasp
The land, that stood erewhile the proof so long,
And pilГўВҖВҷd in bloody heap the host of France.

ГўВҖВңThe old mastiff of Verruchio and the young,
That tore Montagna in their wrath, still make,
Where they are wont, an augre of their fangs.

ГўВҖВңLamoneГўВҖВҷs city and SanternoГўВҖВҷs range
Under the lion of the snowy lair.
Inconstant partisan! that changeth sides,
Or ever summer yields to winterГўВҖВҷs frost.
And she, whose flank is washГўВҖВҷd of SavioГўВҖВҷs wave,
As ГўВҖВҷtwixt the level and the steep she lies,
Lives so ГўВҖВҷtwixt tyrant power and liberty.

ГўВҖВңNow tell us, I entreat thee, who art thou?
Be not more hard than others. In the world,
So may thy name still rear its forehead high.ГўВҖВқ

Then roarГўВҖВҷd awhile the fire, its sharpenГўВҖВҷd point
On either side wavГўВҖВҷd, and thus breathГўВҖВҷd at last:
ГўВҖВңIf I did think, my answer were to one,
Who ever could return unto the world,
This flame should rest unshaken. But since neГўВҖВҷer,
If true be told me, any from this depth
Has found his upward way, I answer thee,
Nor fear lest infamy record the words.

ГўВҖВңA man of arms at first, I clothГўВҖВҷd me then
In good Saint FrancisГўВҖВҷ girdle, hoping so
TГўВҖВҷ have made amends. And certainly my hope
Had failГўВҖВҷd not, but that he, whom curses light on,
The high priest again seducГўВҖВҷd me into sin.
And how and wherefore listen while I tell.
Long as this spirit movГўВҖВҷd the bones and pulp
My mother gave me, less my deeds bespake
The nature of the lion than the fox.
All ways of winding subtlety I knew,
And with such art conducted, that the sound
ReachГўВҖВҷd the worldГўВҖВҷs limit. Soon as to that part
Of life I found me come, when each behoves
To lower sails and gather in the lines;
That which before had pleased me then I rued,
And to repentance and confession turnГўВҖВҷd;
Wretch that I was! and well it had bested me!
The chief of the new Pharisees meantime,
Waging his warfare near the Lateran,
Not with the Saracens or Jews (his foes
All Christians were, nor against Acre one
Had fought, nor trafficГўВҖВҷd in the SoldanГўВҖВҷs land),
He his great charge nor sacred ministry
In himself, revГўВҖВҷrencГўВҖВҷd, nor in me that cord,
Which usГўВҖВҷd to mark with leanness whom it girded.
As in Socrate, Constantine besought
To cure his leprosy SylvesterГўВҖВҷs aid,
So me to cure the fever of his pride
This man besought: my counsel to that end
He askГўВҖВҷd: and I was silent: for his words
SeemГўВҖВҷd drunken: but forthwith he thus resumГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңFrom thy heart banish fear: of all offence
I hitherto absolve thee. In return,
Teach me my purpose so to execute,
That Penestrino cumber earth no more.
HeavГўВҖВҷn, as thou knowest, I have power to shut
And open: and the keys are therefore twain,
The which my predecessor meanly prizГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

Then, yielding to the forceful arguments,
Of silence as more perilous I deemГўВҖВҷd,
And answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңFather! since thou washest me
Clear of that guilt wherein I now must fall,
Large promise with performance scant, be sure,
Shall make thee triumph in thy lofty seat.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen I was numberГўВҖВҷd with the dead, then came
Saint Francis for me; but a cherub dark
He met, who cried: ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳWrong me not; he is mine,
And must below to join the wretched crew,
For the deceitful counsel which he gave.
EГўВҖВҷer since I watchГўВҖВҷd him, hovГўВҖВҷring at his hair,
No power can the impenitent absolve;
Nor to repent and will at once consist,
By contradiction absolute forbid.ГўВҖВқ
Oh misГўВҖВҷry! how I shook myself, when he
SeizГўВҖВҷd me, and cried, ГўВҖВңThou haply thoughtГўВҖВҷst me not
A disputant in logic so exact.ГўВҖВқ
To Minos down he bore me, and the judge
TwinГўВҖВҷd eight times round his callous back the tail,
Which biting with excess of rage, he spake:
ГўВҖВҳThis is a guilty soul, that in the fire
Must vanish.ГўВҖВҷ Hence perdition-doomГўВҖВҷd I rove
A prey to rankling sorrow in this garb.ГўВҖВқ

When he had thus fulfillГўВҖВҷd his words, the flame
In dolour parted, beating to and fro,
And writhing its sharp horn. We onward went,
I and my leader, up along the rock,
Far as another arch, that overhangs
The foss, wherein the penalty is paid
Of those, who load them with committed sin.




CANTO XXVIII


Who, eГўВҖВҷen in words unfetterГўВҖВҷd, might at full
Tell of the wounds and blood that now I saw,
Though he repeated oft the tale? No tongue
So vast a theme could equal, speech and thought
Both impotent alike. If in one band
Collected, stood the people all, who eГўВҖВҷer
PourГўВҖВҷd on ApuliaГўВҖВҷs happy soil their blood,
Slain by the Trojans, and in that long war
When of the rings the measurГўВҖВҷd booty made
A pile so high, as RomeГўВҖВҷs historian writes
Who errs not, with the multitude, that felt
The grinding force of GuiscardГўВҖВҷs Norman steel,
And those the rest, whose bones are gatherГўВҖВҷd yet
At Ceperano, there where treachery
Branded thГўВҖВҷ Apulian name, or where beyond
Thy walls, O Tagliacozzo, without arms
The old Alardo conquerГўВҖВҷd; and his limbs
One were to show transpiercГўВҖВҷd, another his
Clean lopt away; a spectacle like this
Were but a thing of nought, to the hideous sight
Of the ninth chasm. A rundlet, that hath lost
Its middle or side stave, gapes not so wide,
As one I markГўВҖВҷd, torn from the chin throughout
Down to the hinder passage: ГўВҖВҷtwixt the legs
Dangling his entrails hung, the midriff lay
Open to view, and wretched ventricle,
That turns thГўВҖВҷ englutted aliment to dross.

Whilst eagerly I fix on him my gaze,
He eyГўВҖВҷd me, with his hands laid his breast bare,
And cried; ГўВҖВңNow mark how I do rip me! lo!

ГўВҖВңHow is Mohammed mangled! before me
Walks Ali weeping, from the chin his face
Cleft to the forelock; and the others all
Whom here thou seest, while they livГўВҖВҷd, did sow
Scandal and schism, and therefore thus are rent.
A fiend is here behind, who with his sword
Hacks us thus cruelly, slivering again
Each of this ream, when we have compast round
The dismal way, for first our gashes close
Ere we repass before him. But say who
Art thou, that standest musing on the rock,
Haply so lingering to delay the pain
SentencГўВҖВҷd upon thy crimes?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңHim death not yet,ГўВҖВқ
My guide rejoinГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңhath overtaГўВҖВҷen, nor sin
Conducts to torment; but, that he may make
Full trial of your state, I who am dead
Must through the depths of hell, from orb to orb,
Conduct him. Trust my words, for they are true.ГўВҖВқ

More than a hundred spirits, when that they heard,
Stood in the foss to mark me, through amazed,
Forgetful of their pangs. ГўВҖВңThou, who perchance
Shalt shortly view the sun, this warning thou
Bear to Dolcino: bid him, if he wish not
Here soon to follow me, that with good store
Of food he arm him, lest imprisГўВҖВҷning snows
Yield him a victim to NovaraГўВҖВҷs power,
No easy conquest else.ГўВҖВқ With foot upraisГўВҖВҷd
For stepping, spake Mohammed, on the ground
Then fixГўВҖВҷd it to depart. Another shade,
PiercГўВҖВҷd in the throat, his nostrils mutilate
EГўВҖВҷen from beneath the eyebrows, and one ear
Lopt off, who with the rest through wonder stood
Gazing, before the rest advancГўВҖВҷd, and barГўВҖВҷd
His wind-pipe, that without was all oГўВҖВҷersmearГўВҖВҷd
With crimson stain. ГўВҖВңO thou!ГўВҖВқ said ГўВҖВҳhe, ГўВҖВңwhom sin
Condemns not, and whom erst (unless too near
Resemblance do deceive me) I aloft
Have seen on Latian ground, call thou to mind
Piero of Medicina, if again
Returning, thou beholdГўВҖВҷst the pleasant land
That from Vercelli slopes to Mercabo;

ГўВҖВңAnd there instruct the twain, whom Fano boasts
Her worthiest sons, Guido and Angelo,
That if ГўВҖВҷt is givГўВҖВҷn us here to scan aright
The future, they out of lifeГўВҖВҷs tenement
Shall be cast forth, and whelmГўВҖВҷd under the waves
Near to Cattolica, through perfidy
Of a fell tyrant. ГўВҖВҷTwixt the Cyprian isle
And Balearic, neГўВҖВҷer hath Neptune seen
An injury so foul, by pirates done
Or Argive crew of old. That one-eyГўВҖВҷd traitor
(Whose realm there is a spirit here were fain
His eye had still lackГўВҖВҷd sight of) them shall bring
To confГўВҖВҷrence with him, then so shape his end,
That they shall need not ГўВҖВҷgainst FocaraГўВҖВҷs wind
Offer up vow nor prayГўВҖВҷr.ГўВҖВқ I answering thus:

ГўВҖВңDeclare, as thou dost wish that I above
May carry tidings of thee, who is he,
In whom that sight doth wake such sad remembrance?ГўВҖВқ

Forthwith he laid his hand on the cheek-bone
Of one, his fellow-spirit, and his jaws
Expanding, cried: ГўВҖВңLo! this is he I wot of;
He speaks not for himself: the outcast this
Who overwhelmГўВҖВҷd the doubt in CaesarГўВҖВҷs mind,
Affirming that delay to men preparГўВҖВҷd
Was ever harmful. ГўВҖВңOh how terrified
Methought was Curio, from whose throat was cut
The tongue, which spake that hardy word. Then one
MaimГўВҖВҷd of each hand, uplifted in the gloom
The bleeding stumps, that they with gory spots
Sullied his face, and cried: ГўВҖВҳRemember thee
Of Mosca, too, I who, alas! exclaimГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңThe deed once done there is an end,ГўВҖВқ that provГўВҖВҷd
A seed of sorrow to the Tuscan race.ГўВҖВқ

I added: ГўВҖВңAy, and death to thine own tribe.ГўВҖВқ

Whence heaping woe on woe he hurried off,
As one grief-stung to madness. But I there
Still lingerГўВҖВҷd to behold the troop, and saw
Things, such as I may fear without more proof
To tell of, but that conscience makes me firm,
The boon companion, who her strong breast-plate
Buckles on him, that feels no guilt within
And bids him on and fear not. Without doubt
I saw, and yet it seems to pass before me,
A headless trunk, that even as the rest
Of the sad flock pacГўВҖВҷd onward. By the hair
It bore the severГўВҖВҷd member, lantern-wise
Pendent in hand, which lookГўВҖВҷd at us and said,

ГўВҖВңWoeГўВҖВҷs me!ГўВҖВқ The spirit lighted thus himself,
And two there were in one, and one in two.
How that may be he knows who ordereth so.

When at the bridgeГўВҖВҷs foot direct he stood,
His arm aloft he rearГўВҖВҷd, thrusting the head
Full in our view, that nearer we might hear
The words, which thus it utterГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңNow behold
This grievous torment, thou, who breathing goГўВҖВҷst
To spy the dead; behold if any else
Be terrible as this. And that on earth
Thou mayst bear tidings of me, know that I
Am Bertrand, he of Born, who gave King John
The counsel mischievous. Father and son
I set at mutual war. For Absalom
And David more did not Ahitophel,
Spurring them on maliciously to strife.
For parting those so closely knit, my brain
Parted, alas! I carry from its source,
That in this trunk inhabits. Thus the law
Of retribution fiercely works in me.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXIX


So were mine eyes inebriate with view
Of the vast multitude, whom various wounds
DisfigurГўВҖВҷd, that they longГўВҖВҷd to stay and weep.

But Virgil rousГўВҖВҷd me: ГўВҖВңWhat yet gazest on?
Wherefore doth fasten yet thy sight below
Among the maimГўВҖВҷd and miserable shades?
Thou hast not shewn in any chasm beside
This weakness. Know, if thou wouldst number them
That two and twenty miles the valley winds
Its circuit, and already is the moon
Beneath our feet: the time permitted now
Is short, and more not seen remains to see.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf thou,ГўВҖВқ I straight replied, ГўВҖВңhadst weighГўВҖВҷd the cause
For which I lookГўВҖВҷd, thou hadst perchance excusГўВҖВҷd
The tarrying still.ГўВҖВқ My leader part pursuГўВҖВҷd
His way, the while I followГўВҖВҷd, answering him,
And adding thus: ГўВҖВңWithin that cave I deem,
Whereon so fixedly I held my ken,
There is a spirit dwells, one of my blood,
Wailing the crime that costs him now so dear.ГўВҖВқ

Then spake my master: ГўВҖВңLet thy soul no more
Afflict itself for him. Direct elsewhere
Its thought, and leave him. At the bridgeГўВҖВҷs foot
I markГўВҖВҷd how he did point with menacing look
At thee, and heard him by the others namГўВҖВҷd
Geri of Bello. Thou so wholly then
Wert busied with his spirit, who once rulГўВҖВҷd
The towers of Hautefort, that thou lookedst not
That way, ere he was gone.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңO guide belovГўВҖВҷd!
His violent death yet unavengГўВҖВҷd,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңBy any, who are partners in his shame,
Made him contemptuous: therefore, as I think,
He passГўВҖВҷd me speechless by; and doing so
Hath made me more compassionate his fate.ГўВҖВқ

So we discoursГўВҖВҷd to where the rock first showГўВҖВҷd
The other valley, had more light been there,
EГўВҖВҷen to the lowest depth. Soon as we came
OГўВҖВҷer the last cloister in the dismal rounds
Of Malebolge, and the brotherhood
Were to our view exposГўВҖВҷd, then many a dart
Of sore lament assailГўВҖВҷd me, headed all
With points of thrilling pity, that I closГўВҖВҷd
Both ears against the volley with mine hands.

As were the torment, if each lazar-house
Of Valdichiana, in the sultry time
ГўВҖВҷTwixt July and September, with the isle
Sardinia and MaremmaГўВҖВҷs pestilent fen,
Had heapГўВҖВҷd their maladies all in one foss
Together; such was here the torment: dire
The stench, as issuing steams from festerГўВҖВҷd limbs.

We on the utmost shore of the long rock
Descended still to leftward. Then my sight
Was livelier to explore the depth, wherein
The minister of the most mighty Lord,
All-searching Justice, dooms to punishment
The forgers noted on her dread record.

More rueful was it not methinks to see
The nation in Aegina droop, what time
Each living thing, eГўВҖВҷen to the little worm,
All fell, so full of malice was the air
(And afterward, as bards of yore have told,
The ancient people were restorГўВҖВҷd anew
From seed of emmets) than was here to see
The spirits, that languishГўВҖВҷd through the murky vale
Up-pilГўВҖВҷd on many a stack. ConfusГўВҖВҷd they lay,
One oГўВҖВҷer the belly, oГўВҖВҷer the shoulders one
RollГўВҖВҷd of another; sideling crawlГўВҖВҷd a third
Along the dismal pathway. Step by step
We journeyГўВҖВҷd on, in silence looking round
And listГўВҖВҷning those diseasГўВҖВҷd, who strove in vain
To lift their forms. Then two I markГўВҖВҷd, that sat
ProppГўВҖВҷd ГўВҖВҷgainst each other, as two brazen pans
Set to retain the heat. From head to foot,
A tetter barkГўВҖВҷd them round. Nor saw I eГўВҖВҷer
Groom currying so fast, for whom his lord
Impatient waited, or himself perchance
TirГўВҖВҷd with long watching, as of these each one
Plied quickly his keen nails, through furiousness
Of neГўВҖВҷer abated pruriency. The crust
Came drawn from underneath in flakes, like scales
ScrapГўВҖВҷd from the bream or fish of broader mail.

ГўВҖВңO thou, who with thy fingers rendest off
Thy coat of proof,ГўВҖВқ thus spake my guide to one,
ГўВҖВңAnd sometimes makest tearing pincers of them,
Tell me if any born of Latian land
Be among these within: so may thy nails
Serve thee for everlasting to this toil.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBoth are of Latium,ГўВҖВқ weeping he replied,
ГўВҖВңWhom torturГўВҖВҷd thus thou seest: but who art thou
That hast inquirГўВҖВҷd of us?ГўВҖВқ To whom my guide:
ГўВҖВңOne that descend with this man, who yet lives,
From rock to rock, and show him hellГўВҖВҷs abyss.ГўВҖВқ

Then started they asunder, and each turnГўВҖВҷd
Trembling toward us, with the rest, whose ear
Those words redounding struck. To me my liege
AddressГўВҖВҷd him: ГўВҖВңSpeak to them whateГўВҖВҷer thou list.ГўВҖВқ

And I therewith began: ГўВҖВңSo may no time
Filch your remembrance from the thoughts of men
In thГўВҖВҷ upper world, but after many suns
Survive it, as ye tell me, who ye are,
And of what race ye come. Your punishment,
Unseemly and disgustful in its kind,
Deter you not from opening thus much to me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңArezzo was my dwelling,ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd one,
ГўВҖВңAnd me Albero of Sienna brought
To die by fire; but that, for which I died,
Leads me not here. True is in sport I told him,
That I had learnГўВҖВҷd to wing my flight in air.
And he admiring much, as he was void
Of wisdom, willГўВҖВҷd me to declare to him
The secret of mine art: and only hence,
Because I made him not a Daedalus,
PrevailГўВҖВҷd on one supposГўВҖВҷd his sire to burn me.
But Minos to this chasm last of the ten,
For that I practisГўВҖВҷd alchemy on earth,
Has doomГўВҖВҷd me. Him no subterfuge eludes.ГўВҖВқ

Then to the bard I spake: ГўВҖВңWas ever race
Light as SiennaГўВҖВҷs? Sure not France herself
Can show a tribe so frivolous and vain.ГўВҖВқ

The other leprous spirit heard my words,
And thus returnГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңBe Stricca from this charge
Exempted, he who knew so tempГўВҖВҷrately
To lay out fortuneГўВҖВҷs gifts; and Niccolo
Who first the spiceГўВҖВҷs costly luxury
DiscoverГўВҖВҷd in that garden, where such seed
Roots deepest in the soil: and be that troop
Exempted, with whom Caccia of Asciano
LavishГўВҖВҷd his vineyards and wide-spreading woods,
And his rare wisdom Abbagliato showГўВҖВҷd
A spectacle for all. That thou mayst know
Who seconds thee against the Siennese
Thus gladly, bend this way thy sharpenГўВҖВҷd sight,
That well my face may answer to thy ken;
So shalt thou see I am CapocchioГўВҖВҷs ghost,
Who forgГўВҖВҷd transmuted metals by the power
Of alchemy; and if I scan thee right,
Thus needs must well remember how I aped
Creative nature by my subtle art.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXX


What time resentment burnГўВҖВҷd in JunoГўВҖВҷs breast
For Semele against the Theban blood,
As more than once in dire mischance was rued,
Such fatal frenzy seizГўВҖВҷd on Athamas,
That he his spouse beholding with a babe
Laden on either arm, ГўВҖВңSpread out,ГўВҖВқ he cried,
ГўВҖВңThe meshes, that I take the lioness
And the young lions at the pass:ГўВҖВқ then forth
StretchГўВҖВҷd he his merciless talons, grasping one,
One helpless innocent, Learchus namГўВҖВҷd,
Whom swinging down he dashГўВҖВҷd upon a rock,
And with her other burden self-destroyГўВҖВҷd
The hapless mother plungГўВҖВҷd: and when the pride
Of all-presuming Troy fell from its height,
By fortune overwhelmГўВҖВҷd, and the old king
With his realm perishГўВҖВҷd, then did Hecuba,
A wretch forlorn and captive, when she saw
Polyxena first slaughterГўВҖВҷd, and her son,
Her Polydorus, on the wild sea-beach
Next met the mournerГўВҖВҷs view, then reft of sense
Did she run barking even as a dog;
Such mighty power had grief to wrench her soul.
Bet neГўВҖВҷer the Furies or of Thebes or Troy
With such fell cruelty were seen, their goads
Infixing in the limbs of man or beast,
As now two pale and naked ghost I saw
That gnarling wildly scamperГўВҖВҷd, like the swine
Excluded from his stye. One reachГўВҖВҷd Capocchio,
And in the neck-joint sticking deep his fangs,
DraggГўВҖВҷd him, that oГўВҖВҷer the solid pavement rubbГўВҖВҷd
His belly stretchГўВҖВҷd out prone. The other shape,
He of Arezzo, there left trembling, spake;
ГўВҖВңThat sprite of air is Schicchi; in like mood
Of random mischief vents he still his spite.ГўВҖВқ

To whom I answГўВҖВҷring: ГўВҖВңOh! as thou dost hope,
The other may not flesh its jaws on thee,
Be patient to inform us, who it is,
Ere it speed hence.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңThat is the ancient soul
Of wretched Myrrha,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңwho burnГўВҖВҷd
With most unholy flame for her own sire,

ГўВҖВңAnd a false shape assuming, so performГўВҖВҷd
The deed of sin; eГўВҖВҷen as the other there,
That onward passes, darГўВҖВҷd to counterfeit
DonatiГўВҖВҷs features, to feignГўВҖВҷd testament
The seal affixing, that himself might gain,
For his own share, the lady of the herd.ГўВҖВқ

When vanishГўВҖВҷd the two furious shades, on whom
Mine eye was held, I turnГўВҖВҷd it back to view
The other cursed spirits. One I saw
In fashion like a lute, had but the groin
Been severГўВҖВҷd, where it meets the forked part.
Swoln dropsy, disproportioning the limbs
With ill-converted moisture, that the paunch
Suits not the visage, openГўВҖВҷd wide his lips
Gasping as in the hectic man for drought,
One towards the chin, the other upward curlГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңO ye, who in this world of misery,
Wherefore I know not, are exempt from pain,ГўВҖВқ
Thus he began, ГўВҖВңattentively regard
AdamoГўВҖВҷs woe. When living, full supply
NeГўВҖВҷer lackГўВҖВҷd me of what most I coveted;
One drop of water now, alas! I crave.
The rills, that glitter down the grassy slopes
Of Casentino, making fresh and soft
The banks whereby they glide to ArnoГўВҖВҷs stream,
Stand ever in my view; and not in vain;
For more the picturГўВҖВҷd semblance dries me up,
Much more than the disease, which makes the flesh
Desert these shrivelГўВҖВҷd cheeks. So from the place,
Where I transgressГўВҖВҷd, stern justice urging me,
Takes means to quicken more my labГўВҖВҷring sighs.
There is Romena, where I falsified
The metal with the BaptistГўВҖВҷs form imprest,
For which on earth I left my body burnt.
But if I here might see the sorrowing soul
Of Guido, Alessandro, or their brother,
For BrandaГўВҖВҷs limpid spring I would not change
The welcome sight. One is eГўВҖВҷen now within,
If truly the mad spirits tell, that round
Are wandГўВҖВҷring. But wherein besteads me that?
My limbs are fetterГўВҖВҷd. Were I but so light,
That I each hundred years might move one inch,
I had set forth already on this path,
Seeking him out amidst the shapeless crew,
Although eleven miles it wind, not more
Than half of one across. They brought me down
Among this tribe; inducГўВҖВҷd by them I stampГўВҖВҷd
The florens with three carats of alloy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWho are that abject pair,ГўВҖВқ I next inquirГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңThat closely bounding thee upon thy right
Lie smoking, like a band in winter steepГўВҖВҷd
In the chill stream?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңWhen to this gulf I dropt,ГўВҖВқ
He answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңhere I found them; since that hour
They have not turnГўВҖВҷd, nor ever shall, I ween,
Till time hath run his course. One is that dame
The false accuser of the Hebrew youth;
Sinon the other, that false Greek from Troy.
Sharp fever drains the reeky moistness out,
In such a cloud upsteamГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ When that he heard,
One, gallГўВҖВҷd perchance to be so darkly namГўВҖВҷd,
With clenchГўВҖВҷd hand smote him on the braced paunch,
That like a drum resounded: but forthwith
Adamo smote him on the face, the blow
Returning with his arm, that seemГўВҖВҷd as hard.

ГўВҖВңThough my oГўВҖВҷerweighty limbs have taГўВҖВҷen from me
The power to move,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңI have an arm
At liberty for such employ.ГўВҖВқ To whom
Was answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңWhen thou wentest to the fire,
Thou hadst it not so ready at command,
Then readier when it coinГўВҖВҷd thГўВҖВҷ impostor gold.ГўВҖВқ

And thus the dropsied: ГўВҖВңAy, now speakГўВҖВҷst thou true.
But there thou gavГўВҖВҷst not such true testimony,
When thou wast questionГўВҖВҷd of the truth, at Troy.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf I spake false, thou falsely stampГўВҖВҷdst the coin,ГўВҖВқ
Said Sinon; ГўВҖВңI am here but for one fault,
And thou for more than any imp beside.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRemember,ГўВҖВқ he replied, ГўВҖВңO perjurГўВҖВҷd one,
The horse remember, that did teem with death,
And all the world be witness to thy guilt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңTo thine,ГўВҖВқ returnГўВҖВҷd the Greek, ГўВҖВңwitness the thirst
Whence thy tongue cracks, witness the fluid mound,
RearГўВҖВҷd by thy belly up before thine eyes,
A mass corrupt.ГўВҖВқ To whom the coiner thus:
ГўВҖВңThy mouth gapes wide as ever to let pass
Its evil saying. Me if thirst assails,
Yet I am stuffГўВҖВҷd with moisture. Thou art parchГўВҖВҷd,
Pains rack thy head, no urging wouldГўВҖВҷst thou need
To make thee lap NarcissusГўВҖВҷ mirror up.ГўВҖВқ

I was all fixГўВҖВҷd to listen, when my guide
AdmonishГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңNow beware: a little more,
And I do quarrel with thee.ГўВҖВқ I perceivГўВҖВҷd
How angrily he spake, and towards him turnГўВҖВҷd
With shame so poignant, as rememberГўВҖВҷd yet
Confounds me. As a man that dreams of harm
BefallГўВҖВҷn him, dreaming wishes it a dream,
And that which is, desires as if it were not,
Such then was I, who wanting power to speak
WishГўВҖВҷd to excuse myself, and all the while
ExcusГўВҖВҷd me, though unweeting that I did.

ГўВҖВңMore grievous fault than thine has been, less shame,ГўВҖВқ
My master cried, ГўВҖВңmight expiate. Therefore cast
All sorrow from thy soul; and if again
Chance bring thee, where like conference is held,
Think I am ever at thy side. To hear
Such wrangling is a joy for vulgar minds.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXXI


The very tongue, whose keen reproof before
Had wounded me, that either cheek was stainГўВҖВҷd,
Now ministerГўВҖВҷd my cure. So have I heard,
Achilles and his fatherГўВҖВҷs javelin causГўВҖВҷd
Pain first, and then the boon of health restorГўВҖВҷd.

Turning our back upon the vale of woe,
W crossГўВҖВҷd thГўВҖВҷ encircled mound in silence. There
Was twilight dim, that far long the gloom
Mine eye advancГўВҖВҷd not: but I heard a horn
Sounded aloud. The peal it blew had made
The thunder feeble. Following its course
The adverse way, my strained eyes were bent
On that one spot. So terrible a blast
Orlando blew not, when that dismal rout
OГўВҖВҷerthrew the host of Charlemagne, and quenchГўВҖВҷd
His saintly warfare. Thitherward not long
My head was raisГўВҖВҷd, when many lofty towers
Methought I spied. ГўВҖВңMaster,ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңwhat land
Is this?ГўВҖВқ He answerГўВҖВҷd straight: ГўВҖВңToo long a space
Of intervening darkness has thine eye
To traverse: thou hast therefore widely errГўВҖВҷd
In thy imagining. Thither arrivГўВҖВҷd
Thou well shalt see, how distance can delude
The sense. A little therefore urge thee on.ГўВҖВқ

Then tenderly he caught me by the hand;
ГўВҖВңYet know,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңere farther we advance,
That it less strange may seem, these are not towers,
But giants. In the pit they stand immersГўВҖВҷd,
Each from his navel downward, round the bank.ГўВҖВқ

As when a fog disperseth gradually,
Our vision traces what the mist involves
CondensГўВҖВҷd in air; so piercing through the gross
And gloomy atmosphere, as more and more
We nearГўВҖВҷd toward the brink, mine error fled,
And fear came oГўВҖВҷer me. As with circling round
Of turrets, Montereggion crowns his walls,
EГўВҖВҷen thus the shore, encompassing thГўВҖВҷ abyss,
Was turreted with giants, half their length
Uprearing, horrible, whom Jove from heavГўВҖВҷn
Yet threatens, when his muttГўВҖВҷring thunder rolls.

Of one already I descried the face,
Shoulders, and breast, and of the belly huge
Great part, and both arms down along his ribs.

All-teeming nature, when her plastic hand
Left framing of these monsters, did display
Past doubt her wisdom, taking from mad War
Such slaves to do his bidding; and if she
Repent her not of thГўВҖВҷ elephant and whale,
Who ponders well confesses her therein
Wiser and more discreet; for when brute force
And evil will are backГўВҖВҷd with subtlety,
Resistance none avails. His visage seemГўВҖВҷd
In length and bulk, as doth the pine, that tops
Saint PeterГўВҖВҷs Roman fane; and thГўВҖВҷ other bones
Of like proportion, so that from above
The bank, which girdled him below, such height
Arose his stature, that three Friezelanders
Had strivГўВҖВҷn in vain to reach but to his hair.
Full thirty ample palms was he exposГўВҖВҷd
Downward from whence a man his garments loops.
ГўВҖВңRaphel bai ameth sabi almi,ГўВҖВқ
So shouted his fierce lips, which sweeter hymns
Became not; and my guide addressГўВҖВҷd him thus:

ГўВҖВңO senseless spirit! let thy horn for thee
Interpret: therewith vent thy rage, if rage
Or other passion wring thee. Search thy neck,
There shalt thou find the belt that binds it on.
Wild spirit! lo, upon thy mighty breast
Where hangs the baldrick!ГўВҖВқ Then to me he spake:
ГўВҖВңHe doth accuse himself. Nimrod is this,
Through whose ill counsel in the world no more
One tongue prevails. But pass we on, nor waste
Our words; for so each language is to him,
As his to others, understood by none.ГўВҖВқ

Then to the leftward turning sped we forth,
And at a slingГўВҖВҷs throw found another shade
Far fiercer and more huge. I cannot say
What master hand had girt him; but he held
Behind the right arm fetterГўВҖВҷd, and before
The other with a chain, that fastenГўВҖВҷd him
From the neck down, and five times round his form
Apparent met the wreathed links. ГўВҖВңThis proud one
Would of his strength against almighty Jove
Make trial,ГўВҖВқ said my guide; ГўВҖВңwhence he is thus
Requited: Ephialtes him they call.

ГўВҖВңGreat was his prowess, when the giants brought
Fear on the gods: those arms, which then he piled,
Now moves he never.ГўВҖВқ Forthwith I returnГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңFain would I, if ГўВҖВҷt were possible, mine eyes
Of Briareus immeasurable gainГўВҖВҷd
Experience next.ГўВҖВқ He answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңThou shalt see
Not far from hence Antaeus, who both speaks
And is unfetterГўВҖВҷd, who shall place us there
Where guilt is at its depth. Far onward stands
Whom thou wouldst fain behold, in chains, and made
Like to this spirit, save that in his looks
More fell he seems.ГўВҖВқ By violent earthquake rockГўВҖВҷd
NeГўВҖВҷer shook a towГўВҖВҷr, so reeling to its base,
As Ephialtes. More than ever then
I dreaded death, nor than the terror more
Had needed, if I had not seen the cords
That held him fast. We, straightway journeying on,
Came to Antaeus, who five ells complete
Without the head, forth issued from the cave.

ГўВҖВңO thou, who in the fortunate vale, that made
Great Scipio heir of glory, when his sword
Drove back the troop of Hannibal in flight,
Who thence of old didst carry for thy spoil
An hundred lions; and if thou hadst fought
In the high conflict on thy brethrenГўВҖВҷs side,
Seems as men yet believГўВҖВҷd, that through thine arm
The sons of earth had conquerГўВҖВҷd, now vouchsafe
To place us down beneath, where numbing cold
Locks up Cocytus. Force not that we crave
Or TityusГўВҖВҷ help or TyphonГўВҖВҷs. Here is one
Can give what in this realm ye covet. Stoop
Therefore, nor scornfully distort thy lip.
He in the upper world can yet bestow
Renown on thee, for he doth live, and looks
For life yet longer, if before the time
Grace call him not unto herself.ГўВҖВқ Thus spake
The teacher. He in haste forth stretchГўВҖВҷd his hands,
And caught my guide. Alcides whilom felt
That grapple straightenГўВҖВҷd score. Soon as my guide
Had felt it, he bespake me thus: ГўВҖВңThis way
That I may clasp thee;ГўВҖВқ then so caught me up,
That we were both one burden. As appears
The tower of Carisenda, from beneath
Where it doth lean, if chance a passing cloud
So sail across, that opposite it hangs,
Such then Antaeus seemГўВҖВҷd, as at mine ease
I markГўВҖВҷd him stooping. I were fain at times
TГўВҖВҷ have passГўВҖВҷd another way. Yet in thГўВҖВҷ abyss,
That Lucifer with Judas low ingulfs,
lightly he placГўВҖВҷd us; nor there leaning stayГўВҖВҷd,
But rose as in a bark the stately mast.




CANTO XXXII


Could I command rough rhimes and hoarse, to suit
That hole of sorrow, oГўВҖВҷer which evГўВҖВҷry rock
His firm abutment rears, then might the vein
Of fancy rise full springing: but not mine
Such measures, and with faltГўВҖВҷring awe I touch
The mighty theme; for to describe the depth
Of all the universe, is no emprize
To jest with, and demands a tongue not usГўВҖВҷd
To infant babbling. But let them assist
My song, the tuneful maidens, by whose aid
Amphion wallГўВҖВҷd in Thebes, so with the truth
My speech shall best accord. Oh ill-starrГўВҖВҷd folk,
Beyond all others wretched! who abide
In such a mansion, as scarce thought finds words
To speak of, better had ye here on earth
Been flocks or mountain goats. As down we stood
In the dark pit beneath the giantsГўВҖВҷ feet,
But lower far than they, and I did gaze
Still on the lofty battlement, a voice
Bespoke me thus: ГўВҖВңLook how thou walkest. Take
Good heed, thy soles do tread not on the heads
Of thy poor brethren.ГўВҖВқ Thereupon I turnГўВҖВҷd,
And saw before and underneath my feet
A lake, whose frozen surface liker seemГўВҖВҷd
To glass than water. Not so thick a veil
In winter eГўВҖВҷer hath Austrian Danube spread
OГўВҖВҷer his still course, nor Tanais far remote
Under the chilling sky. RollГўВҖВҷd oГўВҖВҷer that mass
Had Tabernich or Pietrapana fallГўВҖВҷn,

Not eГўВҖВҷen its rim had creakГўВҖВҷd. As peeps the frog
Croaking above the wave, what time in dreams
The village gleaner oft pursues her toil,
So, to where modest shame appears, thus low
Blue pinchГўВҖВҷd and shrinГўВҖВҷd in ice the spirits stood,
Moving their teeth in shrill note like the stork.
His face each downward held; their mouth the cold,
Their eyes expressГўВҖВҷd the dolour of their heart.

A space I lookГўВҖВҷd around, then at my feet
Saw two so strictly joinГўВҖВҷd, that of their head
The very hairs were mingled. ГўВҖВңTell me ye,
Whose bosoms thus together press,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңWho are ye?ГўВҖВқ At that sound their necks they bent,
And when their looks were lifted up to me,
Straightway their eyes, before all moist within,
DistillГўВҖВҷd upon their lips, and the frost bound
The tears betwixt those orbs and held them there.
Plank unto plank hath never cramp closГўВҖВҷd up
So stoutly. Whence like two enraged goats
They clashГўВҖВҷd together; them such fury seizГўВҖВҷd.

And one, from whom the cold both ears had reft,
ExclaimГўВҖВҷd, still looking downward: ГўВҖВңWhy on us
Dost speculate so long? If thou wouldst know
Who are these two, the valley, whence his wave
Bisenzio slopes, did for its master own
Their sire Alberto, and next him themselves.
They from one body issued; and throughout
Caina thou mayst search, nor find a shade
More worthy in congealment to be fixГўВҖВҷd,
Not him, whose breast and shadow ArthurГўВҖВҷs land
At that one blow disseverГўВҖВҷd, not Focaccia,
No not this spirit, whose oГўВҖВҷerjutting head
Obstructs my onward view: he bore the name
Of Mascheroni: Tuscan if thou be,
Well knowest who he was: and to cut short
All further question, in my form behold
What once was Camiccione. I await
Carlino here my kinsman, whose deep guilt
Shall wash out mine.ГўВҖВқ A thousand visages
Then markГўВҖВҷd I, which the keen and eager cold
Had shapГўВҖВҷd into a doggish grin; whence creeps
A shivГўВҖВҷring horror oГўВҖВҷer me, at the thought
Of those frore shallows. While we journeyГўВҖВҷd on
Toward the middle, at whose point unites
All heavy substance, and I trembling went
Through that eternal chillness, I know not
If will it were or destiny, or chance,
But, passing ГўВҖВҷmidst the heads, my foot did strike
With violent blow against the face of one.

ГўВҖВңWherefore dost bruise me?ГўВҖВқ weeping, he exclaimГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңUnless thy errand be some fresh revenge
For Montaperto, wherefore troublest me?ГўВҖВқ

I thus: ГўВҖВңInstructor, now await me here,
That I through him may rid me of my doubt.
Thenceforth what haste thou wilt.ГўВҖВқ The teacher pausГўВҖВҷd,
And to that shade I spake, who bitterly
Still cursГўВҖВҷd me in his wrath. ГўВҖВңWhat art thou, speak,
That railest thus on others?ГўВҖВқ He replied:
ГўВҖВңNow who art thou, that smiting othersГўВҖВҷ cheeks
Through Antenora roamest, with such force
As were past suffГўВҖВҷrance, wert thou living still?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd I am living, to thy joy perchance,ГўВҖВқ
Was my reply, ГўВҖВңif fame be dear to thee,
That with the rest I may thy name enrol.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe contrary of what I covet most,ГўВҖВқ
Said he, ГўВҖВңthou tenderГўВҖВҷst: hence; nor vex me more.
Ill knowest thou to flatter in this vale.ГўВҖВқ

Then seizing on his hinder scalp, I cried:
ГўВҖВңName thee, or not a hair shall tarry here.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңRend all away,ГўВҖВқ he answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңyet for that
I will not tell nor show thee who I am,
Though at my head thou pluck a thousand times.ГўВҖВқ

Now I had graspГўВҖВҷd his tresses, and stript off
More than one tuft, he barking, with his eyes
Drawn in and downward, when another cried,
ГўВҖВңWhat ails thee, Bocca? Sound not loud enough
Thy chattГўВҖВҷring teeth, but thou must bark outright?
ГўВҖВңWhat devil wrings thee?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңbe dumb,
Accursed traitor! to thy shame of thee
True tidings will I bear.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңOff,ГўВҖВқ he replied,
ГўВҖВңTell what thou list; but as thou escape from hence
To speak of him whose tongue hath been so glib,
Forget not: here he wails the FrenchmanГўВҖВҷs gold.
ГўВҖВҳHim of Duera,ГўВҖВҷ thou canst say, ГўВҖВҳI markГўВҖВҷd,
Where the starvГўВҖВҷd sinners pine.ГўВҖВҷ If thou be askГўВҖВҷd
What other shade was with them, at thy side
Is Beccaria, whose red gorge distainГўВҖВҷd
The biting axe of Florence. Farther on,
If I misdeem not, Soldanieri bides,
With Ganellon, and Tribaldello, him
Who opГўВҖВҷd Faenza when the people slept.ГўВҖВқ

We now had left him, passing on our way,
When I beheld two spirits by the ice
Pent in one hollow, that the head of one
Was cowl unto the other; and as bread
Is ravenГўВҖВҷd up through hunger, thГўВҖВҷ uppermost
Did so apply his fangs to thГўВҖВҷ otherГўВҖВҷs brain,
Where the spine joins it. Not more furiously
On MenalippusГўВҖВҷ temples Tydeus gnawГўВҖВҷd,
Than on that skull and on its garbage he.

ГўВҖВңO thou who showГўВҖВҷst so beastly sign of hate
ГўВҖВҷGainst him thou preyГўВҖВҷst on, let me hear,ГўВҖВқ said I
ГўВҖВңThe cause, on such condition, that if right
Warrant thy grievance, knowing who ye are,
And what the colour of his sinning was,
I may repay thee in the world above,
If that wherewith I speak be moist so long.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXXIII


His jaws uplifting from their fell repast,
That sinner wipГўВҖВҷd them on the hairs oГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ head,
Which he behind had mangled, then began:
ГўВҖВңThy will obeying, I call up afresh
Sorrow past cure, which but to think of wrings
My heart, or ere I tell onГўВҖВҷt. But if words,
That I may utter, shall prove seed to bear
Fruit of eternal infamy to him,
The traitor whom I gnaw at, thou at once
Shalt see me speak and weep. Who thou mayst be
I know not, nor how here below art come:
But Florentine thou seemest of a truth,
When I do hear thee. Know I was on earth
Count Ugolino, and thГўВҖВҷ Archbishop he
Ruggieri. Why I neighbour him so close,
Now list. That through effect of his ill thoughts
In him my trust reposing, I was taГўВҖВҷen
And after murderГўВҖВҷd, need is not I tell.
What therefore thou canst not have heard, that is,
How cruel was the murder, shalt thou hear,
And know if he have wrongГўВҖВҷd me. A small grate
Within that mew, which for my sake the name
Of famine bears, where others yet must pine,
Already through its opening sevГўВҖВҷral moons
Had shown me, when I slept the evil sleep,
That from the future tore the curtain off.
This one, methought, as master of the sport,
Rode forth to chase the gaunt wolf and his whelps
Unto the mountain, which forbids the sight
Of Lucca to the Pisan. With lean brachs
Inquisitive and keen, before him rangГўВҖВҷd
Lanfranchi with Sismondi and Gualandi.
After short course the father and the sons
SeemГўВҖВҷd tirГўВҖВҷd and lagging, and methought I saw
The sharp tusks gore their sides. When I awoke
Before the dawn, amid their sleep I heard
My sons (for they were with me) weep and ask
For bread. Right cruel art thou, if no pang
Thou feel at thinking what my heart foretold;
And if not now, why use thy tears to flow?
Now had they wakenГўВҖВҷd; and the hour drew near
When they were wont to bring us food; the mind
Of each misgave him through his dream, and I
Heard, at its outlet underneath lockГўВҖВҷd up
The horrible tower: whence uttering not a word
I lookГўВҖВҷd upon the visage of my sons.
I wept not: so all stone I felt within.
They wept: and one, my little Anslem, cried:
ГўВҖВҳThou lookest so! Father what ails thee?ГўВҖВҷ Yet
I shed no tear, nor answerГўВҖВҷd all that day
Nor the next night, until another sun
Came out upon the world. When a faint beam
Had to our doleful prison made its way,
And in four countenances I descryГўВҖВҷd
The image of my own, on either hand
Through agony I bit, and they who thought
I did it through desire of feeding, rose
OГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ sudden, and cried, ГўВҖВҳFather, we should grieve
Far less, if thou wouldst eat of us: thou gavГўВҖВҷst
These weeds of miserable flesh we wear,

And do thou strip them off from us again.ГўВҖВҷ
Then, not to make them sadder, I kept down
My spirit in stillness. That day and the next
We all were silent. Ah, obdurate earth!
Why openГўВҖВҷdst not upon us? When we came
To the fourth day, then Geddo at my feet
OutstretchГўВҖВҷd did fling him, crying, ГўВҖВҳHast no help
For me, my father!ГўВҖВҷ There he died, and eГўВҖВҷen
Plainly as thou seest me, saw I the three
Fall one by one ГўВҖВҷtwixt the fifth day and sixth:

Whence I betook me now grown blind to grope
Over them all, and for three days aloud
CallГўВҖВҷd on them who were dead. Then fasting got
The mastery of grief.ГўВҖВқ Thus having spoke,

Once more upon the wretched skull his teeth
He fastenГўВҖВҷd, like a mastiffГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВҷgainst the bone
Firm and unyielding. Oh thou Pisa! shame
Of all the people, who their dwelling make
In that fair region, where thГўВҖВҷ Italian voice
Is heard, since that thy neighbours are so slack
To punish, from their deep foundations rise
Capraia and Gorgona, and dam up
The mouth of Arno, that each soul in thee
May perish in the waters! What if fame
Reported that thy castles were betrayГўВҖВҷd
By Ugolino, yet no right hadst thou
To stretch his children on the rack. For them,
Brigata, Ugaccione, and the pair
Of gentle ones, of whom my song hath told,
Their tender years, thou modern Thebes! did make
Uncapable of guilt. Onward we passГўВҖВҷd,
Where others skarfГўВҖВҷd in rugged folds of ice
Not on their feet were turnГўВҖВҷd, but each reversГўВҖВҷd.

There very weeping suffers not to weep;
For at their eyes grief seeking passage finds
Impediment, and rolling inward turns
For increase of sharp anguish: the first tears
Hang clusterГўВҖВҷd, and like crystal vizors show,
Under the socket brimming all the cup.

Now though the cold had from my face dislodgГўВҖВҷd
Each feeling, as ГўВҖВҷt were callous, yet me seemГўВҖВҷd
Some breath of wind I felt. ГўВҖВңWhence cometh this,ГўВҖВқ
Said I, ГўВҖВңmy master? Is not here below
All vapour quenchГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳThou shalt be speedily,ГўВҖВқ
He answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңwhere thine eye shall tell thee whence
The cause descrying of this airy shower.ГўВҖВқ

Then cried out one in the chill crust who mournГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңO souls so cruel! that the farthest post
Hath been assignГўВҖВҷd you, from this face remove
The hardenГўВҖВҷd veil, that I may vent the grief
Impregnate at my heart, some little space
Ere it congeal again!ГўВҖВқ I thus replied:
ГўВҖВңSay who thou wast, if thou wouldst have mine aid;
And if I extricate thee not, far down
As to the lowest ice may I descend!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe friar Alberigo,ГўВҖВқ answered he,
ГўВҖВңAm I, who from the evil garden pluckГўВҖВҷd
Its fruitage, and am here repaid, the date
More luscious for my fig.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңHah!ГўВҖВқ I exclaimГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңArt thou too dead!ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңHow in the world aloft
It fareth with my body,ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd he,
ГўВҖВңI am right ignorant. Such privilege
Hath Ptolomea, that ofttimes the soul
Drops hither, ere by Atropos divorcГўВҖВҷd.
And that thou mayst wipe out more willingly
The glazed tear-drops that oГўВҖВҷerlay mine eyes,
Know that the soul, that moment she betrays,
As I did, yields her body to a fiend
Who after moves and governs it at will,
Till all its time be rounded; headlong she
Falls to this cistern. And perchance above
Doth yet appear the body of a ghost,
Who here behind me winters. Him thou knowГўВҖВҷst,
If thou but newly art arrivГўВҖВҷd below.
The years are many that have passГўВҖВҷd away,
Since to this fastness Branca Doria came.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd I, ГўВҖВңmethinks thou mockest me,
For Branca Doria never yet hath died,
But doth all natural functions of a man,
Eats, drinks, and sleeps, and putteth raiment on.ГўВҖВқ

He thus: ГўВҖВңNot yet unto that upper foss
By thГўВҖВҷ evil talons guarded, where the pitch
Tenacious boils, had Michael Zanche reachГўВҖВҷd,
When this one left a demon in his stead
In his own body, and of one his kin,
Who with him treachery wrought. But now put forth
Thy hand, and ope mine eyes.ГўВҖВқ I opГўВҖВҷd them not.
Ill manners were best courtesy to him.

Ah Genoese! men perverse in every way,
With every foulness stainГўВҖВҷd, why from the earth
Are ye not cancelГўВҖВҷd? Such an one of yours
I with RomagnaГўВҖВҷs darkest spirit found,
As for his doings even now in soul
Is in Cocytus plungГўВҖВҷd, and yet doth seem
In body still alive upon the earth.




CANTO XXXIV


ГўВҖВңThe banners of HellГўВҖВҷs Monarch do come forth
Towards us; therefore look,ГўВҖВқ so spake my guide,
ГўВҖВңIf thou discern him.ГўВҖВқ As, when breathes a cloud
Heavy and dense, or when the shades of night
Fall on our hemisphere, seems viewГўВҖВҷd from far
A windmill, which the blast stirs briskly round,
Such was the fabric then methought I saw,

To shield me from the wind, forthwith I drew
Behind my guide: no covert else was there.

Now came I (and with fear I bid my strain
Record the marvel) where the souls were all
WhelmГўВҖВҷd underneath, transparent, as through glass
Pellucid the frail stem. Some prone were laid,
Others stood upright, this upon the soles,
That on his head, a third with face to feet
ArchГўВҖВҷd like a bow. When to the point we came,
Whereat my guide was pleasГўВҖВҷd that I should see
The creature eminent in beauty once,
He from before me steppГўВҖВҷd and made me pause.

ГўВҖВңLo!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңlo Dis! and lo the place,
Where thou hast need to arm thy heart with strength.ГўВҖВқ

How frozen and how faint I then became,
Ask me not, reader! for I write it not,
Since words would fail to tell thee of my state.
I was not dead nor living. Think thyself
If quick conception work in thee at all,
How I did feel. That emperor, who sways
The realm of sorrow, at mid breast from thГўВҖВҷ ice
Stood forth; and I in stature am more like
A giant, than the giants are in his arms.
Mark now how great that whole must be, which suits
With such a part. If he were beautiful
As he is hideous now, and yet did dare
To scowl upon his Maker, well from him
May all our misГўВҖВҷry flow. Oh what a sight!
How passing strange it seemГўВҖВҷd, when I did spy
Upon his head three faces: one in front
Of hue vermilion, thГўВҖВҷ other two with this
Midway each shoulder joinГўВҖВҷd and at the crest;
The right ГўВҖВҷtwixt wan and yellow seemГўВҖВҷd: the left
To look on, such as come from whence old Nile
Stoops to the lowlands. Under each shot forth
Two mighty wings, enormous as became
A bird so vast. Sails never such I saw
OutstretchГўВҖВҷd on the wide sea. No plumes had they,
But were in texture like a bat, and these
He flappГўВҖВҷd iГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ air, that from him issued still
Three winds, wherewith Cocytus to its depth
Was frozen. At six eyes he wept: the tears
Adown three chins distillГўВҖВҷd with bloody foam.
At every mouth his teeth a sinner champГўВҖВҷd
BruisГўВҖВҷd as with pondГўВҖВҷrous engine, so that three
Were in this guise tormented. But far more
Than from that gnawing, was the foremost pangГўВҖВҷd
By the fierce rending, whence ofttimes the back
Was stript of all its skin. ГўВҖВңThat upper spirit,
Who hath worse punishment,ГўВҖВқ so spake my guide,
ГўВҖВңIs Judas, he that hath his head within
And plies the feet without. Of thГўВҖВҷ other two,
Whose heads are under, from the murky jaw
Who hangs, is Brutus: lo! how he doth writhe
And speaks not! ThГўВҖВҷ other Cassius, that appears
So large of limb. But night now re-ascends,
And it is time for parting. All is seen.ГўВҖВқ

I clippГўВҖВҷd him round the neck, for so he bade;
And noting time and place, he, when the wings
Enough were opГўВҖВҷd, caught fast the shaggy sides,
And down from pile to pile descending steppГўВҖВҷd
Between the thick fell and the jagged ice.

Soon as he reachГўВҖВҷd the point, whereat the thigh
Upon the swelling of the haunches turns,
My leader there with pain and struggling hard
TurnГўВҖВҷd round his head, where his feet stood before,
And grappled at the fell, as one who mounts,
That into hell methought we turnГўВҖВҷd again.

ГўВҖВңExpect that by such stairs as these,ГўВҖВқ thus spake
The teacher, panting like a man forespent,
ГўВҖВңWe must depart from evil so extreme.ГўВҖВқ
Then at a rocky opening issued forth,
And placГўВҖВҷd me on a brink to sit, next joinГўВҖВҷd
With wary step my side. I raisГўВҖВҷd mine eyes,
Believing that I Lucifer should see
Where he was lately left, but saw him now
With legs held upward. Let the grosser sort,
Who see not what the point was I had passГўВҖВҷd,
Bethink them if sore toil oppressГўВҖВҷd me then.

ГўВҖВңArise,ГўВҖВқ my master cried, ГўВҖВңupon thy feet.
The way is long, and much uncouth the road;
And now within one hour and half of noon
The sun returns.ГўВҖВқ It was no palace-hall
Lofty and luminous wherein we stood,
But natural dungeon where ill footing was
And scant supply of light. ГўВҖВңEre from thГўВҖВҷ abyss
I sepГўВҖВҷrate,ГўВҖВқ thus when risen I began,
ГўВҖВңMy guide! vouchsafe few words to set me free
From errorГўВҖВҷs thralldom. Where is now the ice?
How standeth he in posture thus reversГўВҖВҷd?
And how from eve to morn in space so brief
Hath the sun made his transit?ГўВҖВқ He in few
Thus answering spake: ГўВҖВңThou deemest thou art still
On thГўВҖВҷ other side the centre, where I graspГўВҖВҷd
ThГўВҖВҷ abhorred worm, that boreth through the world.
Thou wast on thГўВҖВҷ other side, so long as I
Descended; when I turnГўВҖВҷd, thou didst oГўВҖВҷerpass
That point, to which from evГўВҖВҷry part is draggГўВҖВҷd
All heavy substance. Thou art now arrivГўВҖВҷd
Under the hemisphere opposed to that,
Which the great continent doth overspread,
And underneath whose canopy expirГўВҖВҷd
The Man, that was born sinless, and so livГўВҖВҷd.
Thy feet are planted on the smallest sphere,
Whose other aspect is Judecca. Morn
Here rises, when there evening sets: and he,
Whose shaggy pile was scalГўВҖВҷd, yet standeth fixГўВҖВҷd,
As at the first. On this part he fell down
From heavГўВҖВҷn; and thГўВҖВҷ earth, here prominent before,
Through fear of him did veil her with the sea,
And to our hemisphere retirГўВҖВҷd. Perchance
To shun him was the vacant space left here
By what of firm land on this side appears,
That sprang aloof.ГўВҖВқ There is a place beneath,
From Belzebub as distant, as extends
The vaulted tomb, discoverГўВҖВҷd not by sight,
But by the sound of brooklet, that descends
This way along the hollow of a rock,
Which, as it winds with no precipitous course,
The wave hath eaten. By that hidden way
My guide and I did enter, to return
To the fair world: and heedless of repose
We climbed, he first, I following his steps,
Till on our view the beautiful lights of heavГўВҖВҷn
DawnГўВҖВҷd through a circular opening in the cave:
Thus issuing we again beheld the stars.




PURGATORY




CANTO I


OГўВҖВҷer better waves to speed her rapid course
The light bark of my genius lifts the sail,
Well pleasГўВҖВҷd to leave so cruel sea behind;
And of that second region will I sing,
In which the human spirit from sinful blot
Is purgГўВҖВҷd, and for ascent to Heaven prepares.

Here, O ye hallowГўВҖВҷd Nine! for in your train
I follow, here the deadened strain revive;
Nor let Calliope refuse to sound
A somewhat higher song, of that loud tone,
Which when the wretched birds of chattering note
Had heard, they of forgiveness lost all hope.

Sweet hue of eastern sapphire, that was spread
OГўВҖВҷer the serene aspect of the pure air,
High up as the first circle, to mine eyes
Unwonted joy renewГўВҖВҷd, soon as I ГўВҖВҷscapГўВҖВҷd
Forth from the atmosphere of deadly gloom,
That had mine eyes and bosom fillГўВҖВҷd with grief.
The radiant planet, that to love invites,
Made all the orient laugh, and veilГўВҖВҷd beneath
The PiscesГўВҖВҷ light, that in his escort came.

To the right hand I turnГўВҖВҷd, and fixГўВҖВҷd my mind
On theГўВҖВҷ other pole attentive, where I saw
Four stars neГўВҖВҷer seen before save by the ken
Of our first parents. Heaven of their rays
SeemГўВҖВҷd joyous. O thou northern site, bereft
Indeed, and widowГўВҖВҷd, since of these deprivГўВҖВҷd!

As from this view I had desisted, straight
Turning a little towГўВҖВҷrds the other pole,
There from whence now the wain had disappearГўВҖВҷd,
I saw an old man standing by my side
Alone, so worthy of revГўВҖВҷrence in his look,
That neГўВҖВҷer from son to father more was owГўВҖВҷd.
Low down his beard and mixГўВҖВҷd with hoary white
Descended, like his locks, which parting fell
Upon his breast in double fold. The beams
Of those four luminaries on his face
So brightly shone, and with such radiance clear
DeckГўВҖВҷd it, that I beheld him as the sun.

ГўВҖВңSay who are ye, that stemming the blind stream,
Forth from thГўВҖВҷ eternal prison-house have fled?ГўВҖВқ
He spoke and moved those venerable plumes.
ГўВҖВңWho hath conducted, or with lantern sure
Lights you emerging from the depth of night,
That makes the infernal valley ever black?
Are the firm statutes of the dread abyss
Broken, or in high heaven new laws ordainГўВҖВҷd,
That thus, condemnГўВҖВҷd, ye to my caves approach?ГўВҖВқ

My guide, then laying hold on me, by words
And intimations given with hand and head,
Made my bent knees and eye submissive pay
Due reverence; then thus to him replied.

ГўВҖВңNot of myself I come; a Dame from heaven
Descending, had besought me in my charge
To bring. But since thy will implies, that more
Our true condition I unfold at large,
Mine is not to deny thee thy request.
This mortal neГўВҖВҷer hath seen the farthest gloom.
But erring by his folly had approachГўВҖВҷd
So near, that little space was left to turn.
Then, as before I told, I was dispatchГўВҖВҷd
To work his rescue, and no way remainГўВҖВҷd
Save this which I have taГўВҖВҷen. I have displayГўВҖВҷd
Before him all the regions of the bad;
And purpose now those spirits to display,
That under thy command are purgГўВҖВҷd from sin.
How I have brought him would be long to say.
From high descends the virtue, by whose aid
I to thy sight and hearing him have led.
Now may our coming please thee. In the search
Of liberty he journeys: that how dear
They know, who for her sake have life refusГўВҖВҷd.
Thou knowest, to whom death for her was sweet
In Utica, where thou didst leave those weeds,
That in the last great day will shine so bright.
For us theГўВҖВҷ eternal edicts are unmovГўВҖВҷd:
He breathes, and I am free of MinosГўВҖВҷ power,
Abiding in that circle where the eyes
Of thy chaste Marcia beam, who still in look
Prays thee, O hallowГўВҖВҷd spirit! to own her shine.
Then by her love weГўВҖВҷ implore thee, let us pass
Through thy sevГўВҖВҷn regions; for which best thanks
I for thy favour will to her return,
If mention there below thou not disdain.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMarcia so pleasing in my sight was found,ГўВҖВқ
He then to him rejoinГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңwhile I was there,
That all she askГўВҖВҷd me I was fain to grant.
Now that beyond theГўВҖВҷ accursed stream she dwells,
She may no longer move me, by that law,
Which was ordainГўВҖВҷd me, when I issued thence.
Not so, if Dame from heaven, as thou sayst,
Moves and directs thee; then no flattery needs.
Enough for me that in her name thou ask.
Go therefore now: and with a slender reed
See that thou duly gird him, and his face
Lave, till all sordid stain thou wipe from thence.
For not with eye, by any cloud obscurГўВҖВҷd,
Would it be seemly before him to come,
Who stands the foremost minister in heaven.
This islet all around, there far beneath,
Where the wave beats it, on the oozy bed
Produces store of reeds. No other plant,
CoverГўВҖВҷd with leaves, or hardenГўВҖВҷd in its stalk,
There lives, not bending to the waterГўВҖВҷs sway.
After, this way return not; but the sun
Will show you, that now rises, where to take
The mountain in its easiest ascent.ГўВҖВқ

He disappearГўВҖВҷd; and I myself upraisГўВҖВҷd
Speechless, and to my guide retiring close,
Toward him turnГўВҖВҷd mine eyes. He thus began;
ГўВҖВңMy son! observant thou my steps pursue.
We must retreat to rearward, for that way
The champain to its low extreme declines.ГўВҖВқ

The dawn had chasГўВҖВҷd the matin hour of prime,
Which deaf before it, so that from afar
I spyГўВҖВҷd the trembling of the ocean stream.

We traversГўВҖВҷd the deserted plain, as one
Who, wanderГўВҖВҷd from his track, thinks every step
Trodden in vain till he regain the path.

When we had come, where yet the tender dew
Strove with the sun, and in a place, where fresh
The wind breathГўВҖВҷd oГўВҖВҷer it, while it slowly dried;
Both hands extended on the watery grass
My master placГўВҖВҷd, in graceful act and kind.
Whence I of his intent before apprizГўВҖВҷd,
StretchГўВҖВҷd out to him my cheeks suffusГўВҖВҷd with tears.
There to my visage he anew restorГўВҖВҷd
That hue, which the dun shades of hell concealГўВҖВҷd.

Then on the solitary shore arrivГўВҖВҷd,
That never sailing on its waters saw
Man, that could after measure back his course,
He girt me in such manner as had pleasГўВҖВҷd
Him who instructed, and O, strange to tell!
As he selected every humble plant,
Wherever one was pluckГўВҖВҷd, another there
Resembling, straightway in its place arose.




CANTO II


Now had the sun to that horizon reachГўВҖВҷd,
That covers, with the most exalted point
Of its meridian circle, SalemГўВҖВҷs walls,
And night, that opposite to him her orb
Sounds, from the stream of Ganges issued forth,
Holding the scales, that from her hands are droppГўВҖВҷd
When she reigns highest: so that where I was,
AuroraГўВҖВҷs white and vermeil-tincturГўВҖВҷd cheek
To orange turnГўВҖВҷd as she in age increasГўВҖВҷd.

Meanwhile we lingerГўВҖВҷd by the waterГўВҖВҷs brink,
Like men, who, musing on their road, in thought
Journey, while motionless the body rests.
When lo! as near upon the hour of dawn,
Through the thick vapours Mars with fiery beam
Glares down in west, over the ocean floor;
So seemГўВҖВҷd, what once again I hope to view,
A light so swiftly coming through the sea,
No winged course might equal its career.
From which when for a space I had withdrawn
Thine eyes, to make inquiry of my guide,
Again I lookГўВҖВҷd and saw it grown in size
And brightness: thou on either side appearГўВҖВҷd
Something, but what I knew not of bright hue,
And by degrees from underneath it came
Another. My preceptor silent yet
Stood, while the brightness, that we first discernГўВҖВҷd,
OpenГўВҖВҷd the form of wings: then when he knew
The pilot, cried aloud, ГўВҖВңDown, down; bend low
Thy knees; behold GodГўВҖВҷs angel: fold thy hands:
Now shalt thou see true Ministers indeed.ГўВҖВқ

Lo how all human means he sets at naught!
So that nor oar he needs, nor other sail
Except his wings, between such distant shores.
Lo how straight up to heaven he holds them rearГўВҖВҷd,
Winnowing the air with those eternal plumes,
That not like mortal hairs fall off or change!ГўВҖВқ

As more and more toward us came, more bright
AppearГўВҖВҷd the bird of God, nor could the eye
Endure his splendor near: I mine bent down.
He drove ashore in a small bark so swift
And light, that in its course no wave it drank.
The heavГўВҖВҷnly steersman at the prow was seen,
Visibly written blessed in his looks.

Within a hundred spirits and more there sat.
ГўВҖВңIn Exitu Israel de Aegypto;ГўВҖВқ
All with one voice together sang, with what
In the remainder of that hymn is writ.
Then soon as with the sign of holy cross
He blessГўВҖВҷd them, they at once leapГўВҖВҷd out on land,
The swiftly as he came returnГўВҖВҷd. The crew,
There left, appearГўВҖВҷd astounded with the place,
Gazing around as one who sees new sights.

From every side the sun darted his beams,
And with his arrowy radiance from mid heavГўВҖВҷn
Had chasГўВҖВҷd the Capricorn, when that strange tribe
Lifting their eyes towards us: ГўВҖВңIf ye know,
Declare what path will Lead us to the mount.ГўВҖВқ

Them Virgil answerГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңYe suppose perchance
Us well acquainted with this place: but here,
We, as yourselves, are strangers. Not long erst
We came, before you but a little space,
By other road so rough and hard, that now
TheГўВҖВҷ ascent will seem to us as play.ГўВҖВқ The spirits,
Who from my breathing had perceivГўВҖВҷd I livГўВҖВҷd,
Grew pale with wonder. As the multitude
Flock round a herald, sent with olive branch,
To hear what news he brings, and in their haste
Tread one another down, eГўВҖВҷen so at sight
Of me those happy spirits were fixГўВҖВҷd, each one
Forgetful of its errand, to depart,
Where cleansГўВҖВҷd from sin, it might be made all fair.

Then one I saw darting before the rest
With such fond ardour to embrace me, I
To do the like was movГўВҖВҷd. O shadows vain
Except in outward semblance! thrice my hands
I claspГўВҖВҷd behind it, they as oft returnГўВҖВҷd
Empty into my breast again. Surprise
I needs must think was painted in my looks,
For that the shadow smilГўВҖВҷd and backward drew.
To follow it I hastenГўВҖВҷd, but with voice
Of sweetness it enjoinГўВҖВҷd me to desist.
Then who it was I knew, and prayГўВҖВҷd of it,
To talk with me, it would a little pause.
It answered: ГўВҖВңThee as in my mortal frame
I lovГўВҖВҷd, so loosГўВҖВҷd forth it I love thee still,
And therefore pause; but why walkest thou here?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNot without purpose once more to return,
Thou findГўВҖВҷst me, my Casella, where I am
Journeying this way;ГўВҖВқ I said, ГўВҖВңbut how of thee
Hath so much time been lost?ГўВҖВқ He answerГўВҖВҷd straight:
ГўВҖВңNo outrage hath been done to me, if he
Who when and whom he chooses takes, me oft
This passage hath denied, since of just will
His will he makes. These three months past indeed,
He, whose chose to enter, with free leave
Hath taken; whence I wandГўВҖВҷring by the shore
Where TyberГўВҖВҷs wave grows salt, of him gainГўВҖВҷd kind
Admittance, at that riverГўВҖВҷs mouth, towГўВҖВҷrd which
His wings are pointed, for there always throng
All such as not to Archeron descend.ГўВҖВқ

Then I: ГўВҖВңIf new laws have not quite destroyГўВҖВҷd
Memory and use of that sweet song of love,
That while all my cares had power to ГўВҖВҷswage;
Please thee with it a little to console
My spirit, that incumberГўВҖВҷd with its frame,
Travelling so far, of pain is overcome.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLove that discourses in my thoughts.ГўВҖВқ He then
Began in such soft accents, that within
The sweetness thrills me yet. My gentle guide
And all who came with him, so well were pleasГўВҖВҷd,
That seemГўВҖВҷd naught else might in their thoughts have room.

Fast fixГўВҖВҷd in mute attention to his notes
We stood, when lo! that old man venerable
Exclaiming, ГўВҖВңHow is this, ye tardy spirits?
What negligence detains you loitГўВҖВҷring here?
Run to the mountain to cast off those scales,
That from your eyes the sight of God conceal.ГўВҖВқ

As a wild flock of pigeons, to their food
Collected, blade or tares, without their pride
AccustomГўВҖВҷd, and in still and quiet sort,
If aught alarm them, suddenly desert
Their meal, assailГўВҖВҷd by more important care;
So I that new-come troop beheld, the song
Deserting, hasten to the mountainГўВҖВҷs side,
As one who goes yet where he tends knows not.

Nor with less hurried step did we depart.




CANTO III


Them sudden flight had scatterГўВҖВҷd over the plain,
TurnГўВҖВҷd towГўВҖВҷrds the mountain, whither reasonГўВҖВҷs voice
Drives us; I to my faithful company
Adhering, left it not. For how of him
DeprivГўВҖВҷd, might I have sped, or who beside
Would oГўВҖВҷer the mountainous tract have led my steps
He with the bitter pang of self-remorse
SeemГўВҖВҷd smitten. O clear conscience and upright
How doth a little fling wound thee sore!

Soon as his feet desisted (slackГўВҖВҷning pace),
From haste, that mars all decency of act,
My mind, that in itself before was wrapt,
Its thoughts expanded, as with joy restorГўВҖВҷd:
And full against the steep ascent I set
My face, where highest to heavГўВҖВҷn its top oГўВҖВҷerflows.

The sun, that flarГўВҖВҷd behind, with ruddy beam
Before my form was broken; for in me
His rays resistance met. I turnГўВҖВҷd aside
With fear of being left, when I beheld
Only before myself the ground obscurГўВҖВҷd.
When thus my solace, turning him around,
Bespake me kindly: ГўВҖВңWhy distrustest thou?
BelievГўВҖВҷst not I am with thee, thy sure guide?
It now is evening there, where buried lies
The body, in which I cast a shade, removГўВҖВҷd
To Naples from BrundusiumГўВҖВҷs wall. Nor thou
Marvel, if before me no shadow fall,
More than that in the sky element
One ray obstructs not other. To endure
Torments of heat and cold extreme, like frames
That virtue hath disposГўВҖВҷd, which how it works
Wills not to us should be revealГўВҖВҷd. Insane
Who hopes, our reason may that space explore,
Which holds three persons in one substance knit.
Seek not the wherefore, race of human kind;
Could ye have seen the whole, no need had been
For Mary to bring forth. Moreover ye
Have seen such men desiring fruitlessly;
To whose desires repose would have been givГўВҖВҷn,
That now but serve them for eternal grief.
I speak of Plato, and the Stagyrite,
And others many more.ГўВҖВқ And then he bent
Downwards his forehead, and in troubled mood
Broke off his speech. Meanwhile we had arrivГўВҖВҷd
Far as the mountainГўВҖВҷs foot, and there the rock
Found of so steep ascent, that nimblest steps
To climb it had been vain. The most remote
Most wild untrodden path, in all the tract
ГўВҖВҷTwixt Lerice and Turbia were to this
A ladder easyГўВҖВҷ and open of access.

ГўВҖВңWho knows on which hand now the steep declines?ГўВҖВқ
My master said and pausГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңso that he may
Ascend, who journeys without aid of wine?ГўВҖВқ
And while with looks directed to the ground
The meaning of the pathway he explorГўВҖВҷd,
And I gazГўВҖВҷd upward round the stony height,
Of spirits, that toward us movГўВҖВҷd their steps,
Yet moving seemГўВҖВҷd not, they so slow approachГўВҖВҷd.

I thus my guide addressГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңUpraise thine eyes,
Lo that way some, of whom thou mayГўВҖВҷst obtain
Counsel, if of thyself thou findГўВҖВҷst it not!ГўВҖВқ

Straightway he lookГўВҖВҷd, and with free speech replied:
ГўВҖВңLet us tend thither: they but softly come.
And thou be firm in hope, my son belovГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

Now was that people distant far in space
A thousand paces behind ours, as much
As at a throw the nervous arm could fling,
When all drew backward on the messy crags
Of the steep bank, and firmly stood unmovГўВҖВҷd
As one who walks in doubt might stand to look.

ГўВҖВңO spirits perfect! O already chosen!ГўВҖВқ
Virgil to them began, ГўВҖВңby that blest peace,
Which, as I deem, is for you all preparГўВҖВҷd,
Instruct us where the mountain low declines,
So that attempt to mount it be not vain.
For who knows most, him loss of time most grieves.ГўВҖВқ

As sheep, that step from forth their fold, by one,
Or pairs, or three at once; meanwhile the rest
Stand fearfully, bending the eye and nose
To ground, and what the foremost does, that do
The others, gathГўВҖВҷring round her, if she stops,
Simple and quiet, nor the cause discern;
So saw I moving to advance the first,
Who of that fortunate crew were at the head,
Of modest mien and graceful in their gait.
When they before me had beheld the light
From my right side fall broken on the ground,
So that the shadow reachГўВҖВҷd the cave, they stoppГўВҖВҷd
And somewhat back retirГўВҖВҷd: the same did all,
Who followГўВҖВҷd, though unweeting of the cause.

ГўВҖВңUnaskГўВҖВҷd of you, yet freely I confess,
This is a human body which ye see.
That the sunГўВҖВҷs light is broken on the ground,
Marvel not: but believe, that not without
Virtue derivГўВҖВҷd from Heaven, we to climb
Over this wall aspire.ГўВҖВқ So them bespake
My master; and that virtuous tribe rejoinГўВҖВҷd;
ГўВҖВңTurn, and before you there the entrance lies,ГўВҖВқ
Making a signal to us with bent hands.

Then of them one began. ГўВҖВңWhoeГўВҖВҷer thou art,
Who journeyГўВҖВҷst thus this way, thy visage turn,
Think if me elsewhere thou hast ever seen.ГўВҖВқ

I towГўВҖВҷrds him turnГўВҖВҷd, and with fixГўВҖВҷd eye beheld.
Comely, and fair, and gentle of aspect,
He seemГўВҖВҷd, but on one brow a gash was markГўВҖВҷd.

When humbly I disclaimГўВҖВҷd to have beheld
Him ever: ГўВҖВңNow behold!ГўВҖВқ he said, and showГўВҖВҷd
High on his breast a wound: then smiling spake.

ГўВҖВңI am Manfredi, grandson to the Queen
Costanza: whence I pray thee, when returnГўВҖВҷd,
To my fair daughter go, the parent glad
Of Aragonia and SiciliaГўВҖВҷs pride;
And of the truth inform her, if of me
Aught else be told. When by two mortal blows
My frame was shatterГўВҖВҷd, I betook myself
Weeping to him, who of free will forgives.
My sins were horrible; but so wide arms
Hath goodness infinite, that it receives
All who turn to it. Had this text divine
Been of CosenzaГўВҖВҷs shepherd better scannГўВҖВҷd,
Who then by Clement on my hunt was set,
Yet at the bridgeГўВҖВҷs head my bones had lain,
Near Benevento, by the heavy mole
Protected; but the rain now drenches them,
And the wind drives, out of the kingdomГўВҖВҷs bounds,
Far as the stream of Verde, where, with lights
ExtinguishГўВҖВҷd, he removГўВҖВҷd them from their bed.
Yet by their curse we are not so destroyГўВҖВҷd,
But that the eternal love may turn, while hope
Retains her verdant blossoms. True it is,
That such one as in contumacy dies
Against the holy church, though he repent,
Must wander thirty-fold for all the time
In his presumption past; if such decree
Be not by prayers of good men shorter made
Look therefore if thou canst advance my bliss;
Revealing to my good Costanza, how
Thou hast beheld me, and beside the terms
Laid on me of that interdict; for here
By means of those below much profit comes.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO IV


When by sensations of delight or pain,
That any of our faculties hath seizГўВҖВҷd,
Entire the soul collects herself, it seems
She is intent upon that power alone,
And thus the error is disprovГўВҖВҷd which holds
The soul not singly lighted in the breast.
And therefore when as aught is heard or seen,
That firmly keeps the soul toward it turnГўВҖВҷd,
Time passes, and a man perceives it not.
For that, whereby he hearken, is one power,
Another that, which the whole spirit hash;
This is as it were bound, while that is free.

This found I true by proof, hearing that spirit
And wondГўВҖВҷring; for full fifty steps aloft
The sun had measurГўВҖВҷd unobservГўВҖВҷd of me,
When we arrivГўВҖВҷd where all with one accord
The spirits shouted, ГўВҖВңHere is what ye ask.ГўВҖВқ

A larger aperture ofttimes is stoppГўВҖВҷd
With forked stake of thorn by villager,
When the ripe grape imbrowns, than was the path,
By which my guide, and I behind him close,
Ascended solitary, when that troop
Departing left us. On SanleoГўВҖВҷs road
Who journeys, or to Noli low descends,
Or mounts BismantuaГўВҖВҷs height, must use his feet;
But here a man had need to fly, I mean
With the swift wing and plumes of high desire,
Conducted by his aid, who gave me hope,
And with light furnishГўВҖВҷd to direct my way.

We through the broken rock ascended, close
Pent on each side, while underneath the ground
AskГўВҖВҷd help of hands and feet. When we arrivГўВҖВҷd
Near on the highest ridge of the steep bank,
Where the plain level openГўВҖВҷd I exclaimГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңO master! say which way can we proceed?ГўВҖВқ

He answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңLet no step of thine recede.
Behind me gain the mountain, till to us
Some practisГўВҖВҷd guide appear.ГўВҖВқ That eminence
Was lofty that no eye might reach its point,
And the side proudly rising, more than line
From the mid quadrant to the centre drawn.
I wearied thus began: ГўВҖВңParent belovГўВҖВҷd!
Turn, and behold how I remain alone,
If thou stay not.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMy son!ГўВҖВқ He straight replyГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңThus far put forth thy strength;ГўВҖВқ and to a track
Pointed, that, on this side projecting, round
Circles the hill. His words so spurrГўВҖВҷd me on,
That I behind him clambГўВҖВҷring, forcГўВҖВҷd myself,
Till my feet pressГўВҖВҷd the circuit plain beneath.
There both together seated, turnГўВҖВҷd we round
To eastward, whence was our ascent: and oft
Many beside have with delight lookГўВҖВҷd back.

First on the nether shores I turnГўВҖВҷd my eyes,
Then raisГўВҖВҷd them to the sun, and wondГўВҖВҷring markГўВҖВҷd
That from the left it smote us. Soon perceivГўВҖВҷd
That Poet sage now at the car of light
AmazГўВҖВҷd I stood, where ГўВҖВҷtwixt us and the north
Its course it enterГўВҖВҷd. Whence he thus to me:
ГўВҖВңWere LedaГўВҖВҷs offspring now in company
Of that broad mirror, that high up and low
Imparts his light beneath, thou mightГўВҖВҷst behold
The ruddy zodiac nearer to the bears
Wheel, if its ancient course it not forsook.
How that may be if thou wouldГўВҖВҷst think; within
PondГўВҖВҷring, imagine Sion with this mount
PlacГўВҖВҷd on the earth, so that to both be one
Horizon, and two hemispheres apart,
Where lies the path that Phaeton ill knew
To guide his erring chariot: thou wilt see
How of necessity by this on one
He passes, while by that on theГўВҖВҷ other side,
If with clear view shine intellect attend.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңOf truth, kind teacher!ГўВҖВқ I exclaimГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңso clear
Aught saw I never, as I now discern
Where seemГўВҖВҷd my ken to fail, that the mid orb
Of the supernal motion (which in terms
Of art is called the Equator, and remains
Ever between the sun and winter) for the cause
Thou hast assignГўВҖВҷd, from hence toward the north
Departs, when those who in the Hebrew land
Inhabit, see it towГўВҖВҷrds the warmer part.
But if it please thee, I would gladly know,
How far we have to journey: for the hill
Mounts higher, than this sight of mine can mount.ГўВҖВқ

He thus to me: ГўВҖВңSuch is this steep ascent,
That it is ever difficult at first,
But, more a man proceeds, less evil grows.
When pleasant it shall seem to thee, so much
That upward going shall be easy to thee.
As in a vessel to go down the tide,
Then of this path thou wilt have reachГўВҖВҷd the end.
There hope to rest thee from thy toil. No more
I answer, and thus far for certain know.ГўВҖВқ
As he his words had spoken, near to us
A voice there sounded: ГўВҖВңYet ye first perchance
May to repose you by constraint be led.ГўВҖВқ
At sound thereof each turnГўВҖВҷd, and on the left
A huge stone we beheld, of which nor I
Nor he before was ware. Thither we drew,
find there were some, who in the shady place
Behind the rock were standing, as a man
ThruГўВҖВҷ idleness might stand. Among them one,
Who seemГўВҖВҷd to me much wearied, sat him down,
And with his arms did fold his knees about,
Holding his face between them downward bent.

ГўВҖВңSweet Sir!ГўВҖВқ I cryГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңbehold that man, who shows
Himself more idle, than if laziness
Were sister to him.ГўВҖВқ Straight he turnГўВҖВҷd to us,
And, oГўВҖВҷer the thigh lifting his face, observГўВҖВҷd,
Then in these accents spake: ГўВҖВңUp then, proceed
Thou valiant one.ГўВҖВқ Straight who it was I knew;
Nor could the pain I felt (for want of breath
Still somewhat urgГўВҖВҷd me) hinder my approach.
And when I came to him, he scarce his head
Uplifted, saying ГўВҖВңWell hast thou discernГўВҖВҷd,
How from the left the sun his chariot leads.ГўВҖВқ

His lazy acts and broken words my lips
To laughter somewhat movГўВҖВҷd; when I began:
ГўВҖВңBelacqua, now for thee I grieve no more.
But tell, why thou art seated upright there?
Waitest thou escort to conduct thee hence?
Or blame I only shine accustomГўВҖВҷd ways?ГўВҖВқ
Then he: ГўВҖВңMy brother, of what use to mount,
When to my suffering would not let me pass
The bird of God, who at the portal sits?
Behooves so long that heavГўВҖВҷn first bear me round
Without its limits, as in life it bore,
Because I to the end repentant Sighs
DelayГўВҖВҷd, if prayer do not aid me first,
That riseth up from heart which lives in grace.
What other kind avails, not heard in heaven?ГўВҖВқ

Before me now the Poet up the mount
Ascending, cried: ГўВҖВңHaste thee, for see the sun
Has touchГўВҖВҷd the point meridian, and the night
Now covers with her foot MaroccoГўВҖВҷs shore.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO V


Now had I left those spirits, and pursued
The steps of my Conductor, when beheld
Pointing the finger at me one exclaimГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңSee how it seems as if the light not shone
From the left hand of him beneath, and he,
As living, seems to be led on.ГўВҖВқ Mine eyes
I at that sound reverting, saw them gaze
Through wonder first at me, and then at me
And the light broken underneath, by turns.
ГўВҖВңWhy are thy thoughts thus riveted?ГўВҖВқ my guide
ExclaimГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңthat thou hast slackГўВҖВҷd thy pace? or how
Imports it thee, what thing is whisperГўВҖВҷd here?
Come after me, and to their babblings leave
The crowd. Be as a tower, that, firmly set,
Shakes not its top for any blast that blows!
He, in whose bosom thought on thought shoots out,
Still of his aim is wide, in that the one
Sicklies and wastes to nought the otherГўВҖВҷs strength.ГўВҖВқ
What other could I answer save ГўВҖВңI come?ГўВҖВқ
I said it, somewhat with that colour tingГўВҖВҷd
Which ofttimes pardon meriteth for man.
Meanwhile traverse along the hill there came,
A little way before us, some who sang
The ГўВҖВңMiserereГўВҖВқ in responsive Strains.
When they perceivГўВҖВҷd that through my body I
Gave way not for the rays to pass, their song
Straight to a long and hoarse exclaim they changГўВҖВҷd;
And two of them, in guise of messengers,
Ran on to meet us, and inquiring askГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңOf your condition we would gladly learn.ГўВҖВқ
To them my guide. ГўВҖВңYe may return, and bear
Tidings to them who sent you, that his frame
Is real flesh. If, as I deem, to view
His shade they pausГўВҖВҷd, enough is answerГўВҖВҷd them.
Him let them honour, they may prize him well.ГўВҖВқ
NeГўВҖВҷer saw I fiery vapours with such speed
Cut through the serene air at fall of night,
Nor AugustГўВҖВҷs clouds athwart the setting sun,
That upward these did not in shorter space
Return; and, there arriving, with the rest
Wheel back on us, as with loose rein a troop.

ГўВҖВңMany,ГўВҖВқ exclaimГўВҖВҷd the bard, ГўВҖВңare these, who throng
Around us: to petition thee they come.
Go therefore on, and listen as thou goГўВҖВҷst.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңO spirit! who goГўВҖВҷst on to blessedness
With the same limbs, that clad thee at thy birth.ГўВҖВқ
Shouting they came, ГўВҖВңa little rest thy step.
Look if thou any one amongst our tribe
Hast eГўВҖВҷer beheld, that tidings of him there
Thou mayst report. Ah, wherefore goГўВҖВҷst thou on?
Ah wherefore tarriest thou not? We all
By violence died, and to our latest hour
Were sinners, but then warnГўВҖВҷd by light from heavГўВҖВҷn,
So that, repenting and forgiving, we
Did issue out of life at peace with God,
Who with desire to see him fills our heart.ГўВҖВқ
Then I: ГўВҖВңThe visages of all I scan
Yet none of ye remember. But if aught,
That I can do, may please you, gentle spirits!
Speak; and I will perform it, by that peace,
Which on the steps of guide so excellent
Following from world to world intent I seek.ГўВҖВқ
In answer he began: ГўВҖВңNone here distrusts
Thy kindness, though not promisГўВҖВҷd with an oath;
So as the will fail not for want of power.
Whence I, who sole before the others speak,
Entreat thee, if thou ever see that land,
Which lies between Romagna and the realm
Of Charles, that of thy courtesy thou pray
Those who inhabit Fano, that for me
Their adorations duly be put up,
By which I may purge off my grievous sins.
From thence I came. But the deep passages,
Whence issued out the blood wherein I dwelt,
Upon my bosom in AntenorГўВҖВҷs land
Were made, where to be more secure I thought.
The author of the deed was EsteГўВҖВҷs prince,
Who, more than right could warrant, with his wrath
Pursued me. Had I towards Mira fled,
When overtaГўВҖВҷen at Oriaco, still
Might I have breathГўВҖВҷd. But to the marsh I sped,
And in the mire and rushes tangled there
Fell, and beheld my life-blood float the plain.ГўВҖВқ
Then said another: ГўВҖВңAh! so may the wish,
That takes thee oГўВҖВҷer the mountain, be fulfillГўВҖВҷd,
As thou shalt graciously give aid to mine.
Of Montefeltro I; Buonconte I:
Giovanna nor none else have care for me,
Sorrowing with these I therefore go.ГўВҖВқ I thus:
ГўВҖВңFrom CampaldinoГўВҖВҷs field what force or chance
Drew thee, that neГўВҖВҷer thy sepulture was known?ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd he, ГўВҖВңat CasentinoГўВҖВҷs foot
A stream there courseth, namГўВҖВҷd Archiano, sprung
In Apennine above the HermitГўВҖВҷs seat.
EГўВҖВҷen where its name is cancelГўВҖВҷd, there came I,
PiercГўВҖВҷd in the heart, fleeing away on foot,
And bloodying the plain. Here sight and speech
FailГўВҖВҷd me, and finishing with MaryГўВҖВҷs name
I fell, and tenantless my flesh remainГўВҖВҷd.
I will report the truth; which thou again
Tell to the living. Me GodГўВҖВҷs angel took,
Whilst he of hell exclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңO thou from heavГўВҖВҷn!
Say wherefore hast thou robbГўВҖВҷd me? Thou of him
ThГўВҖВҷ eternal portion bearГўВҖВҷst with thee away
For one poor tear that he deprives me of.
But of the other, other rule I make.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңThou knowest how in the atmosphere collects
That vapour dank, returning into water,
Soon as it mounts where cold condenses it.
That evil will, which in his intellect
Still follows evil, came, and raisГўВҖВҷd the wind
And smoky mist, by virtue of the power
Given by his nature. Thence the valley, soon
As day was spent, he coverГўВҖВҷd oГўВҖВҷer with cloud
From Pratomagno to the mountain range,
And stretchГўВҖВҷd the sky above, so that the air
Impregnate changГўВҖВҷd to water. Fell the rain,
And to the fosses came all that the land
ContainГўВҖВҷd not; and, as mightiest streams are wont,
To the great river with such headlong sweep
RushГўВҖВҷd, that nought stayГўВҖВҷd its course. My stiffenГўВҖВҷd frame
Laid at his mouth the fell Archiano found,
And dashГўВҖВҷd it into Arno, from my breast
LoosГўВҖВҷning the cross, that of myself I made
When overcome with pain. He hurlГўВҖВҷd me on,
Along the banks and bottom of his course;
Then in his muddy spoils encircling wrapt.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAh! when thou to the world shalt be returnГўВҖВҷd,
And rested after thy long road,ГўВҖВқ so spake
Next the third spirit; ГўВҖВңthen remember me.
I once was Pia. Sienna gave me life,
Maremma took it from me. That he knows,
Who me with jewellГўВҖВҷd ring had first espousГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO VI


When from their game of dice men separate,
He, who hath lost, remains in sadness fixГўВҖВҷd,
Revolving in his mind, what luckless throws
He cast: but meanwhile all the company
Go with the other; one before him runs,
And one behind his mantle twitches, one
Fast by his side bids him remember him.
He stops not; and each one, to whom his hand
Is stretchГўВҖВҷd, well knows he bids him stand aside;
And thus he from the press defends himself.
EГўВҖВҷen such was I in that close-crowding throng;
And turning so my face around to all,
And promising, I ГўВҖВҷscapГўВҖВҷd from it with pains.
Here of Arezzo him I saw, who fell
By GhinoГўВҖВҷs cruel arm; and him beside,
Who in his chase was swallowГўВҖВҷd by the stream.
Here Frederic Novello, with his hand
StretchГўВҖВҷd forth, entreated; and of Pisa he,
Who put the good Marzuco to such proof
Of constancy. Count Orso I beheld;
And from its frame a soul dismissГўВҖВҷd for spite
And envy, as it said, but for no crime:
I speak of Peter de la Brosse; and here,
While she yet lives, that Lady of Brabant
Let her beware; lest for so false a deed
She herd with worse than these. When I was freed
From all those spirits, who prayГўВҖВҷd for othersГўВҖВҷ prayers
To hasten on their state of blessedness;
Straight I began: ГўВҖВңO thou, my luminary!
It seems expressly in thy text denied,
That heavenГўВҖВҷs supreme decree can never bend
To supplication; yet with this design
Do these entreat. Can then their hope be vain,
Or is thy saying not to me revealГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқ
He thus to me: ГўВҖВңBoth what I write is plain,
And these deceivГўВҖВҷd not in their hope, if well
Thy mind consider, that the sacred height
Of judgment doth not stoop, because loveГўВҖВҷs flame
In a short moment all fulfils, which he
Who sojourns here, in right should satisfy.
Besides, when I this point concluded thus,
By praying no defect could be supplied;
Because the prayГўВҖВҷr had none access to God.
Yet in this deep suspicion rest thou not
Contented unless she assure thee so,
Who betwixt truth and mind infuses light.
I know not if thou take me right; I mean
Beatrice. Her thou shalt behold above,
Upon this mountainГўВҖВҷs crown, fair seat of joy.ГўВҖВқ
Then I: ГўВҖВңSir! let us mend our speed; for now
I tire not as before; and lo! the hill
Stretches its shadow far.ГўВҖВқ He answerГўВҖВҷd thus:
ГўВҖВңOur progress with this day shall be as much
As we may now dispatch; but otherwise
Than thou supposest is the truth. For there
Thou canst not be, ere thou once more behold
Him back returning, who behind the steep
Is now so hidden, that as erst his beam
Thou dost not break. But lo! a spirit there
Stands solitary, and toward us looks:
It will instruct us in the speediest way.ГўВҖВқ
We soon approachГўВҖВҷd it. O thou Lombard spirit!
How didst thou stand, in high abstracted mood,
Scarce moving with slow dignity thine eyes!
It spoke not aught, but let us onward pass,
Eyeing us as a lion on his watch.
But Virgil with entreaty mild advancГўВҖВҷd,
Requesting it to show the best ascent.
It answer to his question none returnГўВҖВҷd,
But of our country and our kind of life
Demanded. When my courteous guide began,
ГўВҖВңMantua,ГўВҖВқ the solitary shadow quick
Rose towards us from the place in which it stood,
And cryГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңMantuan! I am thy countryman
Sordello.ГўВҖВқ Each the other then embracГўВҖВҷd.
Ah slavish Italy! thou inn of grief,
Vessel without a pilot in loud storm,
Lady no longer of fair provinces,
But brothel-house impure! this gentle spirit,
EvГўВҖВҷn from the Pleasant sound of his dear land
Was prompt to greet a fellow citizen
With such glad cheer; while now thy living ones
In thee abide not without war; and one
Malicious gnaws another, ay of those
Whom the same wall and the same moat contains,
Seek, wretched one! around thy sea-coasts wide;
Then homeward to thy bosom turn, and mark
If any part of the sweet peace enjoy.
What boots it, that thy reins JustinianГўВҖВҷs hand
Befitted, if thy saddle be unpressГўВҖВҷd?
Nought doth he now but aggravate thy shame.
Ah people! thou obedient still shouldst live,
And in the saddle let thy Caesar sit,
If well thou markedГўВҖВҷst that which God commands.
Look how that beast to felness hath relapsГўВҖВҷd
From having lost correction of the spur,
Since to the bridle thou hast set thine hand,
O German Albert! who abandonГўВҖВҷst her,
That is grown savage and unmanageable,
When thou shouldГўВҖВҷst clasp her flanks with forked heels.
Just judgment from the stars fall on thy blood!
And be it strange and manifest to all!
Such as may strike thy successor with dread!
For that thy sire and thou have sufferГўВҖВҷd thus,
Through greediness of yonder realms detainГўВҖВҷd,
The garden of the empire to run waste.
Come see the Capulets and Montagues,
The Philippeschi and Monaldi! man
Who carГўВҖВҷst for nought! those sunk in grief, and these
With dire suspicion rackГўВҖВҷd. Come, cruel one!
Come and behold theГўВҖВҷ oppression of the nobles,
And mark their injuries: and thou mayst see.
What safety Santafiore can supply.
Come and behold thy Rome, who calls on thee,
Desolate widow! day and night with moans:
ГўВҖВңMy Caesar, why dost thou desert my side?ГўВҖВқ
Come and behold what love among thy people:
And if no pity touches thee for us,
Come and blush for thine own report. For me,
If it be lawful, O Almighty Power,
Who wast in earth for our sakes crucified!
Are thy just eyes turnГўВҖВҷd elsewhere? or is this
A preparation in the wondГўВҖВҷrous depth
Of thy sage counsel made, for some good end,
Entirely from our reach of thought cut off?
So are theГўВҖВҷ Italian cities all oГўВҖВҷerthrongГўВҖВҷd
With tyrants, and a great Marcellus made
Of every petty factious villager.
My Florence! thou mayst well remain unmovГўВҖВҷd
At this digression, which affects not thee:
Thanks to thy people, who so wisely speed.
Many have justice in their heart, that long
Waiteth for counsel to direct the bow,
Or ere it dart unto its aim: but shine
Have it on their lipГўВҖВҷs edge. Many refuse
To bear the common burdens: readier thine
Answer uneallГўВҖВҷd, and cry, ГўВҖВңBehold I stoop!ГўВҖВқ
Make thyself glad, for thou hast reason now,
Thou wealthy! thou at peace! thou wisdom-fraught!
Facts best witness if I speak the truth.
Athens and Lacedaemon, who of old
Enacted laws, for civil arts renownГўВҖВҷd,
Made little progress in improving life
TowГўВҖВҷrds thee, who usest such nice subtlety,
That to the middle of November scarce
Reaches the thread thou in October weavГўВҖВҷst.
How many times, within thy memory,
Customs, and laws, and coins, and offices
Have been by thee renewГўВҖВҷd, and people changГўВҖВҷd!
If thou rememberГўВҖВҷst well and canГўВҖВҷst see clear,
Thou wilt perceive thyself like a sick wretch,
Who finds no rest upon her down, but oft
Shifting her side, short respite seeks from pain.




CANTO VII


After their courteous greetings joyfully
SevГўВҖВҷn times exchangГўВҖВҷd, Sordello backward drew
Exclaiming, ГўВҖВңWho are ye?ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңBefore this mount
By spirits worthy of ascent to God
Was sought, my bones had by OctaviusГўВҖВҷ care
Been buried. I am Virgil, for no sin
DeprivГўВҖВҷd of heavГўВҖВҷn, except for lack of faith.ГўВҖВқ
So answerГўВҖВҷd him in few my gentle guide.
As one, who aught before him suddenly
Beholding, whence his wonder riseth, cries
ГўВҖВңIt is yet is not,ГўВҖВқ wavГўВҖВҷring in belief;
Such he appearГўВҖВҷd; then downward bent his eyes,
And drawing near with reverential step,
Caught him, where of mean estate might clasp
His lord. ГўВҖВңGlory of Latium!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңIn whom our tongue its utmost power displayГўВҖВҷd!
Boast of my honorГўВҖВҷd birth-place! what desert
Of mine, what favour rather undeservГўВҖВҷd,
Shows thee to me? If I to hear that voice
Am worthy, say if from below thou comГўВҖВҷst
And from what cloisterГўВҖВҷs pale?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңThrough every orb
Of that sad region,ГўВҖВқ he replyГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңthus far
Am I arrivГўВҖВҷd, by heavГўВҖВҷnly influence led
And with such aid I come. There is a place
There underneath, not made by torments sad,
But by dun shades alone; where mourningГўВҖВҷs voice
Sounds not of anguish sharp, but breathes in sighs.ГўВҖВқ

There I with little innocents abide,
Who by deathГўВҖВҷs fangs were bitten, ere exempt
From human taint. There I with those abide,
Who the three holy virtues put not on,
But understood the rest, and without blame
FollowГўВҖВҷd them all. But if thou knowГўВҖВҷst and canst,
Direct us, how we soonest may arrive,
Where Purgatory its true beginning takes.ГўВҖВқ
He answerГўВҖВҷd thus: ГўВҖВңWe have no certain place
AssignГўВҖВҷd us: upwards I may go or round,
Far as I can, I join thee for thy guide.
But thou beholdest now how day declines:
And upwards to proceed by night, our power
Excels: therefore it may be well to choose
A place of pleasant sojourn. To the right
Some spirits sit apart retirГўВҖВҷd. If thou
Consentest, I to these will lead thy steps:
And thou wilt know them, not without delight.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңHow chances this?ГўВҖВқ was answerГўВҖВҷd; ГўВҖВңwho so wishГўВҖВҷd
To ascend by night, would he be thence debarrГўВҖВҷd
By other, or through his own weakness fail?ГўВҖВқ
The good Sordello then, along the ground
Trailing his finger, spoke: ГўВҖВңOnly this line
Thou shalt not overpass, soon as the sun
Hath disappearГўВҖВҷd; not that aught else impedes
Thy going upwards, save the shades of night.
These with the wont of power perplex the will.
With them thou haply mightst return beneath,
Or to and fro around the mountainГўВҖВҷs side
Wander, while day is in the horizon shut.ГўВҖВқ
My master straight, as wondГўВҖВҷring at his speech,
ExclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңThen lead us quickly, where thou sayst,
That, while we stay, we may enjoy delight.ГўВҖВқ
A little space we were removГўВҖВҷd from thence,
When I perceivГўВҖВҷd the mountain hollowГўВҖВҷd out.
EvГўВҖВҷn as large valleys hollowГўВҖВҷd out on earth,
ГўВҖВңThat way,ГўВҖВқ theГўВҖВҷ escorting spirit cried, ГўВҖВңwe go,
Where in a bosom the high bank recedes:
And thou await renewal of the day.ГўВҖВқ
Betwixt the steep and plain a crooked path
Led us traverse into the ridgeГўВҖВҷs side,
Where more than half the sloping edge expires.
Refulgent gold, and silver thrice refinГўВҖВҷd,
And scarlet grain and ceruse, Indian wood
Of lucid dye serene, fresh emeralds
But newly broken, by the herbs and flowers
PlacГўВҖВҷd in that fair recess, in color all
Had been surpassГўВҖВҷd, as great surpasses less.
Nor nature only there lavishГўВҖВҷd her hues,
But of the sweetness of a thousand smells
A rare and undistinguishГўВҖВҷd fragrance made.

ГўВҖВңSalve Regina,ГўВҖВқ on the grass and flowers
Here chanting I beheld those spirits sit
Who not beyond the valley could be seen.
ГўВҖВңBefore the westГўВҖВҷring sun sink to his bed,ГўВҖВқ
Began the Mantuan, who our steps had turnГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷMid those desires not that I lead ye on.
For from this eminence ye shall discern
Better the acts and visages of all,
Than in the nether vale among them mixГўВҖВҷd.
He, who sits high above the rest, and seems
To have neglected that he should have done,
And to the othersГўВҖВҷ song moves not his lip,
The Emperor Rodolph call, who might have healГўВҖВҷd
The wounds whereof fair Italy hath died,
So that by others she revives but slowly,
He, who with kindly visage comforts him,
SwayГўВҖВҷd in that country, where the water springs,
That MoldawГўВҖВҷs river to the Elbe, and Elbe
Rolls to the ocean: Ottocar his name:
Who in his swaddling clothes was of more worth
Than Winceslaus his son, a bearded man,
PamperГўВҖВҷd with rank luxuriousness and ease.
And that one with the nose depress, who close
In counsel seems with him of gentle look,
Flying expirГўВҖВҷd, withГўВҖВҷring the lilyГўВҖВҷs flower.
Look there how he doth knock against his breast!
The other ye behold, who for his cheek
Makes of one hand a couch, with frequent sighs.
They are the father and the father-in-law
Of GalliaГўВҖВҷs bane: his vicious life they know
And foul; thence comes the grief that rends them thus.
ГўВҖВңHe, so robust of limb, who measure keeps
In song, with him of feature prominent,
With evГўВҖВҷry virtue bore his girdle bracГўВҖВҷd.
And if that stripling who behinds him sits,
King after him had livГўВҖВҷd, his virtue then
From vessel to like vessel had been pourГўВҖВҷd;
Which may not of the other heirs be said.
By James and Frederick his realms are held;
Neither the better heritage obtains.
Rarely into the branches of the tree
Doth human worth mount up; and so ordains
He who bestows it, that as his free gift
It may be callГўВҖВҷd. To Charles my words apply
No less than to his brother in the song;
Which Pouille and Provence now with grief confess.
So much that plant degenerates from its seed,
As more than Beatrice and Margaret
Costanza still boasts of her valorous spouse.
ГўВҖВңBehold the king of simple life and plain,
Harry of England, sitting there alone:
He through his branches better issue spreads.
ГўВҖВңThat one, who on the ground beneath the rest
Sits lowest, yet his gaze directs aloft,
Us William, that brave Marquis, for whose cause
The deed of Alexandria and his war
Makes Conferrat and Canavese weep.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO VIII


Now was the hour that wakens fond desire
In men at sea, and melts their thoughtful heart,
Who in the morn have bid sweet friends farewell,
And pilgrim newly on his road with love
Thrills, if he hear the vesper bell from far,
That seems to mourn for the expiring day:
When I, no longer taking heed to hear
Began, with wonder, from those spirits to mark
One risen from its seat, which with its hand
Audience implorГўВҖВҷd. Both palms it joinГўВҖВҷd and raisГўВҖВҷd,
Fixing its steadfast gaze towards the east,
As telling God, ГўВҖВңI care for naught beside.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңTe Lucis Ante,ГўВҖВқ so devoutly then
Came from its lip, and in so soft a strain,
That all my sense in ravishment was lost.
And the rest after, softly and devout,
FollowГўВҖВҷd through all the hymn, with upward gaze
Directed to the bright supernal wheels.
Here, reader! for the truth makes thine eyes keen:
For of so subtle texture is this veil,
That thou with ease mayst pass it through unmarkГўВҖВҷd.
I saw that gentle band silently next
Look up, as if in expectation held,
Pale and in lowly guise; and from on high
I saw forth issuing descend beneath
Two angels with two flame-illuminГўВҖВҷd swords,
Broken and mutilated at their points.
Green as the tender leaves but newly born,
Their vesture was, the which by wings as green
Beaten, they drew behind them, fannГўВҖВҷd in air.
A little over us one took his stand,
The other lighted on theГўВҖВҷ Opposing hill,
So that the troop were in the midst containГўВҖВҷd.
Well I descried the whiteness on their heads;
But in their visages the dazzled eye
Was lost, as faculty that by too much
Is overpowerГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңFrom MaryГўВҖВҷs bosom both
Are come,ГўВҖВқ exclaimГўВҖВҷd Sordello, ГўВҖВңas a guard
Over the vale, ganst him, who hither tends,
The serpent.ГўВҖВқ Whence, not knowing by which path
He came, I turnГўВҖВҷd me round, and closely pressГўВҖВҷd,
All frozen, to my leaderГўВҖВҷs trusted side.
Sordello pausГўВҖВҷd not: ГўВҖВңTo the valley now
(For it is time) let us descend; and hold
Converse with those great shadows: haply much
Their sight may please ye.ГўВҖВқ Only three steps down
Methinks I measurГўВҖВҷd, ere I was beneath,
And noted one who lookГўВҖВҷd as with desire
To know me. Time was now that air arrow dim;
Yet not so dim, that ГўВҖВҷtwixt his eyes and mine
It clearГўВҖВҷd not up what was concealГўВҖВҷd before.
Mutually towГўВҖВҷrds each other we advancГўВҖВҷd.
Nino, thou courteous judge! what joy I felt,
When I perceivГўВҖВҷd thou wert not with the bad!
No salutation kind on either part
Was left unsaid. He then inquirГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңHow long
Since thou arrivedГўВҖВҷst at the mountainГўВҖВҷs foot,
Over the distant waves?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңO!ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd I,
ГўВҖВңThrough the sad seats of woe this morn I came,
And still in my first life, thus journeying on,
The other strive to gain.ГўВҖВқ Soon as they heard
My words, he and Sordello backward drew,
As suddenly amazГўВҖВҷd. To Virgil one,
The other to a spirit turnГўВҖВҷd, who near
Was seated, crying: ГўВҖВңConrad! up with speed:
Come, see what of his grace high God hath willГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ
Then turning round to me: ГўВҖВңBy that rare mark
Of honour which thou owГўВҖВҷst to him, who hides
So deeply his first cause, it hath no ford,
When thou shalt be beyond the vast of waves.
Tell my Giovanna, that for me she call
There, where reply to innocence is made.
Her mother, I believe, loves me no more;
Since she has changГўВҖВҷd the white and wimpled folds,
Which she is doomГўВҖВҷd once more with grief to wish.
By her it easily may be perceivГўВҖВҷd,
How long in women lasts the flame of love,
If sight and touch do not relume it oft.
For her so fair a burial will not make
The viper which calls Milan to the field,
As had been made by shrill GalluraГўВҖВҷs bird.ГўВҖВқ
He spoke, and in his visage took the stamp
Of that right seal, which with due temperature
Glows in the bosom. My insatiate eyes
Meanwhile to heavГўВҖВҷn had travelГўВҖВҷd, even there
Where the bright stars are slowest, as a wheel
Nearest the axle; when my guide inquirГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңWhat there aloft, my son, has caught thy gaze?ГўВҖВқ
I answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңThe three torches, with which here
The pole is all on fire.ГўВҖВқ He then to me:
ГўВҖВңThe four resplendent stars, thou sawГўВҖВҷst this morn
Are there beneath, and these risГўВҖВҷn in their stead.ГўВҖВқ
While yet he spoke. Sordello to himself
Drew him, and cryГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңLo there our enemy!ГўВҖВқ
And with his hand pointed that way to look.
Along the side, where barrier none arose
Around the little vale, a serpent lay,
Such haply as gave Eve the bitter food.
Between the grass and flowers, the evil snake
Came on, reverting oft his lifted head;
And, as a beast that smoothes its polishГўВҖВҷd coat,
Licking his hack. I saw not, nor can tell,
How those celestial falcons from their seat
MovГўВҖВҷd, but in motion each one well descried,
Hearing the air cut by their verdant plumes.
The serpent fled; and to their stations back
The angels up returnГўВҖВҷd with equal flight.

The Spirit (who to Nino, when he callГўВҖВҷd,
Had come), from viewing me with fixed ken,
Through all that conflict, loosenГўВҖВҷd not his sight.
ГўВҖВңSo may the lamp, which leads thee up on high,
Find, in thy destinГўВҖВҷd lot, of wax so much,
As may suffice thee to the enamelГўВҖВҷs height.ГўВҖВқ
It thus began: ГўВҖВңIf any certain news
Of Valdimagra and the neighbour part
Thou knowГўВҖВҷst, tell me, who once was mighty there
They callГўВҖВҷd me Conrad Malaspina, not
That old one, but from him I sprang. The love
I bore my people is now here refinГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңIn your dominions,ГўВҖВқ I answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңneГўВҖВҷer was I.
But through all Europe where do those men dwell,
To whom their glory is not manifest?
The fame, that honours your illustrious house,
Proclaims the nobles and proclaims the land;
So that he knows it who was never there.
I swear to you, so may my upward route
Prosper! your honourГўВҖВҷd nation not impairs
The value of her coffer and her sword.
Nature and use give her such privilege,
That while the world is twisted from his course
By a bad head, she only walks aright,
And has the evil way in scorn.ГўВҖВқ He then:
ГўВҖВңNow pass thee on: sevГўВҖВҷn times the tired sun
Revisits not the couch, which with four feet
The forked Aries covers, ere that kind
Opinion shall be nailГўВҖВҷd into thy brain
With stronger nails than otherГўВҖВҷs speech can drive,
If the sure course of judgment be not stayГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO IX


Now the fair consort of Tithonus old,
Arisen from her mateГўВҖВҷs beloved arms,
LookГўВҖВҷd palely oГўВҖВҷer the eastern cliff: her brow,
Lucent with jewels, glitterГўВҖВҷd, set in sign
Of that chill animal, who with his train
Smites fearful nations: and where then we were,
Two steps of her ascent the night had past,
And now the third was closing up its wing,
When I, who had so much of Adam with me,
Sank down upon the grass, oГўВҖВҷercome with sleep,
There where all five were seated. In that hour,
When near the dawn the swallow her sad lay,
RemembГўВҖВҷring haply ancient grief, renews,
And with our minds more wandГўВҖВҷrers from the flesh,
And less by thought restrainГўВҖВҷd are, as ГўВҖВҷt were, full
Of holy divination in their dreams,
Then in a vision did I seem to view
A golden-featherГўВҖВҷd eagle in the sky,
With open wings, and hovГўВҖВҷring for descent,
And I was in that place, methought, from whence
Young Ganymede, from his associates ГўВҖВҷreft,
Was snatchГўВҖВҷd aloft to the high consistory.
ГўВҖВңPerhaps,ГўВҖВқ thought I within me, ГўВҖВңhere alone
He strikes his quarry, and elsewhere disdains
To pounce upon the prey.ГўВҖВқ Therewith, it seemГўВҖВҷd,
A little wheeling in his airy tour
Terrible as the lightning rushГўВҖВҷd he down,
And snatchГўВҖВҷd me upward even to the fire.

There both, I thought, the eagle and myself
Did burn; and so intense thГўВҖВҷ imaginГўВҖВҷd flames,
That needs my sleep was broken off. As erst
Achilles shook himself, and round him rollГўВҖВҷd
His wakenГўВҖВҷd eyeballs wondГўВҖВҷring where he was,
Whenas his mother had from Chiron fled
To Scyros, with him sleeping in her arms;
EГўВҖВҷen thus I shook me, soon as from my face
The slumber parted, turning deadly pale,
Like one ice-struck with dread. Solo at my side
My comfort stood: and the bright sun was now
More than two hours aloft: and to the sea
My looks were turnГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңFear not,ГўВҖВқ my master cried,
ГўВҖВңAssurГўВҖВҷd we are at happy point. Thy strength
Shrink not, but rise dilated. Thou art come
To Purgatory now. Lo! there the cliff
That circling bounds it! Lo! the entrance there,
Where it doth seem disparted! Ere the dawn
UsherГўВҖВҷd the daylight, when thy wearied soul
Slept in thee, oГўВҖВҷer the flowery vale beneath
A lady came, and thus bespake me: I
Am Lucia. Suffer me to take this man,
Who slumbers. Easier so his way shall speed.ГўВҖВқ
Sordello and the other gentle shapes
Tarrying, she bare thee up: and, as day shone,
This summit reachГўВҖВҷd: and I pursued her steps.
Here did she place thee. First her lovely eyes
That open entrance showГўВҖВҷd me; then at once
She vanishГўВҖВҷd with thy sleep.ГўВҖВқ Like one, whose doubts
Are chasГўВҖВҷd by certainty, and terror turnГўВҖВҷd
To comfort on discovery of the truth,
Such was the change in me: and as my guide
Beheld me fearless, up along the cliff
He movГўВҖВҷd, and I behind him, towards the height.
Reader! thou markest how my theme doth rise,
Nor wonder therefore, if more artfully
I prop the structure! Nearer now we drew,
ArrivГўВҖВҷdГўВҖВҷ whence in that part, where first a breach
As of a wall appearГўВҖВҷd, I could descry
A portal, and three steps beneath, that led
For inlet there, of different colour each,
And one who watchГўВҖВҷd, but spake not yet a word.
As more and more mine eye did stretch its view,
I markГўВҖВҷd him seated on the highest step,
In visage such, as past my power to bear.

GraspГўВҖВҷd in his hand a naked sword, glancГўВҖВҷd back
The rays so toward me, that I oft in vain
My sight directed. ГўВҖВңSpeak from whence ye stand:ГўВҖВқ
He cried: ГўВҖВңWhat would ye? Where is your escort?
Take heed your coming upward harm ye not.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңA heavenly dame, not skilless of these things,ГўВҖВқ
Replied theГўВҖВҷ instructor, ГўВҖВңtold us, even now,
ГўВҖВҳPass that way: here the gate is.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңAnd may she
Befriending prosper your ascent,ГўВҖВқ resumГўВҖВҷd
The courteous keeper of the gate: ГўВҖВңCome then
Before our steps.ГўВҖВқ We straightway thither came.
The lowest stair was marble white so smooth
And polishГўВҖВҷd, that therein my mirrorГўВҖВҷd form
Distinct I saw. The next of hue more dark
Than sablest grain, a rough and singed block,
CrackГўВҖВҷd lengthwise and across. The third, that lay
Massy above, seemГўВҖВҷd porphyry, that flamГўВҖВҷd
Red as the life-blood spouting from a vein.
On this GodГўВҖВҷs angel either foot sustainГўВҖВҷd,
Upon the threshold seated, which appearГўВҖВҷd
A rock of diamond. Up the trinal steps
My leader cheerily drew me. ГўВҖВңAsk,ГўВҖВқ said he,
ГўВҖВңWith humble heart, that he unbar the bolt.ГўВҖВқ
Piously at his holy feet devolvГўВҖВҷd
I cast me, praying him for pityГўВҖВҷs sake
That he would open to me: but first fell
Thrice on my bosom prostrate. Seven times
The letter, that denotes the inward stain,
He on my forehead with the blunted point
Of his drawn sword inscribГўВҖВҷd. And ГўВҖВңLook,ГўВҖВқ he cried,
ГўВҖВңWhen enterГўВҖВҷd, that thou wash these scars away.ГўВҖВқ
Ashes, or earth taГўВҖВҷen dry out of the ground,
Were of one colour with the robe he wore.
From underneath that vestment forth he drew
Two keys of metal twain: the one was gold,
Its fellow silver. With the pallid first,
And next the burnishГўВҖВҷd, he so plyГўВҖВҷd the gate,
As to content me well. ГўВҖВңWhenever one
Faileth of these, that in the keyhole straight
It turn not, to this alley then expect
Access in vain.ГўВҖВқ Such were the words he spake.
ГўВҖВңOne is more precious: but the other needs
Skill and sagacity, large share of each,
Ere its good task to disengage the knot
Be worthily performГўВҖВҷd. From Peter these
I hold, of him instructed, that I err
Rather in opening than in keeping fast;
So but the suppliant at my feet implore.ГўВҖВқ
Then of that hallowГўВҖВҷd gate he thrust the door,
Exclaiming, ГўВҖВңEnter, but this warning hear:
He forth again departs who looks behind.ГўВҖВқ
As in the hinges of that sacred ward
The swivels turnГўВҖВҷd, sonorous metal strong,
Harsh was the grating; nor so surlily
RoarГўВҖВҷd the Tarpeian, when by force bereft
Of good Metellus, thenceforth from his loss
To leanness doomГўВҖВҷd. Attentively I turnГўВҖВҷd,
ListГўВҖВҷning the thunder, that first issued forth;
And ГўВҖВңWe praise thee, O God,ГўВҖВқ methought I heard
In accents blended with sweet melody.
The strains came oГўВҖВҷer mine ear, eГўВҖВҷen as the sound
Of choral voices, that in solemn chant
With organ mingle, and, now high and clear,
Come swelling, now float indistinct away.




CANTO X


When we had passed the threshold of the gate
(Which the soulГўВҖВҷs ill affection doth disuse,
Making the crooked seem the straighter path),
I heard its closing sound. Had mine eyes turnГўВҖВҷd,
For that offence what plea might have availГўВҖВҷd?
We mounted up the riven rock, that wound
On either side alternate, as the wave
Flies and advances. ГўВҖВңHere some little art
Behooves us,ГўВҖВқ said my leader, ГўВҖВңthat our steps
Observe the varying flexure of the path.ГўВҖВқ
Thus we so slowly sped, that with cleft orb
The moon once more oГўВҖВҷerhangs her watГўВҖВҷry couch,
Ere we that strait have threaded. But when free
We came and open, where the mount above
One solid mass retires, I spent, with toil,
And both, uncertain of the way, we stood,
Upon a plain more lonesome, than the roads
That traverse desert wilds. From whence the brink
Borders upon vacuity, to foot
Of the steep bank, that rises still, the space
Had measurГўВҖВҷd thrice the stature of a man:
And, distant as mine eye could wing its flight,
To leftward now and now to right dispatchГўВҖВҷd,
That cornice equal in extent appearГўВҖВҷd.
Not yet our feet had on that summit movГўВҖВҷd,
When I discoverГўВҖВҷd that the bank around,
Whose proud uprising all ascent denied,
Was marble white, and so exactly wrought
With quaintest sculpture, that not there alone
Had Polycletus, but eГўВҖВҷen natureГўВҖВҷs self
Been shamГўВҖВҷd. The angel who came down to earth
With tidings of the peace so many years
Wept for in vain, that opГўВҖВҷd the heavenly gates
From their long interdict before us seemГўВҖВҷd,
In a sweet act, so sculpturГўВҖВҷd to the life,
He lookГўВҖВҷd no silent image. One had sworn
He had said, ГўВҖВңHail!ГўВҖВқ for she was imagГўВҖВҷd there,
By whom the key did open to GodГўВҖВҷs love,
And in her act as sensibly impress
That word, ГўВҖВңBehold the handmaid of the Lord,ГўВҖВқ
As figure sealГўВҖВҷd on wax. ГўВҖВңFix not thy mind
On one place only,ГўВҖВқ said the guide belovГўВҖВҷd,
Who had me near him on that part where lies
The heart of man. My sight forthwith I turnГўВҖВҷd
And markГўВҖВҷd, behind the virgin motherГўВҖВҷs form,
Upon that side, where he, that movГўВҖВҷd me, stood,
Another story graven on the rock.
I passed athwart the bard, and drew me near,
That it might stand more aptly for my view.
There in the self-same marble were engravГўВҖВҷd
The cart and kine, drawing the sacred ark,
That from unbidden office awes mankind.
Before it came much people; and the whole
Parted in seven quires. One sense cried, ГўВҖВңNay,ГўВҖВқ
Another, ГўВҖВңYes, they sing.ГўВҖВқ Like doubt arose
Betwixt the eye and smell, from the curlГўВҖВҷd fume
Of incense breathing up the well-wrought toil.
Preceding the blest vessel, onward came
With light dance leaping, girt in humble guise,
Sweet IsraelГўВҖВҷs harper: in that hap he seemГўВҖВҷd
Less and yet more than kingly. Opposite,
At a great palace, from the lattice forth
LookГўВҖВҷd Michol, like a lady full of scorn
And sorrow. To behold the tablet next,
Which at the hack of Michol whitely shone,
I movГўВҖВҷd me. There was storied on the rock
TheГўВҖВҷ exalted glory of the Roman prince,
Whose mighty worth movГўВҖВҷd Gregory to earn
His mighty conquest, Trajan thГўВҖВҷ Emperor.
A widow at his bridle stood, attirГўВҖВҷd
In tears and mourning. Round about them troopГўВҖВҷd
Full throng of knights, and overhead in gold
The eagles floated, struggling with the wind.

The wretch appearГўВҖВҷd amid all these to say:
ГўВҖВңGrant vengeance, sire! for, woe beshrew this heart
My son is murderГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ He replying seemГўВҖВҷd;
ГўВҖВңWait now till I return.ГўВҖВқ And she, as one
Made hasty by her grief; ГўВҖВңO sire, if thou
Dost not return?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңWhere I am, who then is,
May right thee.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңWhat to thee is otherГўВҖВҷs good,
If thou neglect thy own?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңNow comfort thee,ГўВҖВқ
At length he answers. ГўВҖВңIt beseemeth well
My duty be performГўВҖВҷd, ere I move hence:
So justice wills; and pity bids me stay.ГўВҖВқ
He, whose ken nothing new surveys, producГўВҖВҷd
That visible speaking, new to us and strange
The like not found on earth. Fondly I gazГўВҖВҷd
Upon those patterns of meek humbleness,
Shapes yet more precious for their artistГўВҖВҷs sake,
When ГўВҖВңLo,ГўВҖВқ the poet whisperГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңwhere this way
(But slack their pace), a multitude advance.
These to the lofty steps shall guide us on.ГўВҖВқ
Mine eyes, though bent on view of novel sights
Their lovГўВҖВҷd allurement, were not slow to turn.
Reader! I would not that amazГўВҖВҷd thou miss
Of thy good purpose, hearing how just God
Decrees our debts be cancelГўВҖВҷd. Ponder not
The form of suffГўВҖВҷring. Think on what succeeds,
Think that at worst beyond the mighty doom
It cannot pass. ГўВҖВңInstructor,ГўВҖВқ I began,
ГўВҖВңWhat I see hither tending, bears no trace
Of human semblance, nor of aught beside
That my foilГўВҖВҷd sight can guess.ГўВҖВқ He answering thus:
ГўВҖВңSo courbГўВҖВҷd to earth, beneath their heavy teems
Of torment stoop they, that mine eye at first
Struggled as thine. But look intently thither,
An disentangle with thy labГўВҖВҷring view,
What underneath those stones approacheth: now,
EГўВҖВҷen now, mayst thou discern the pangs of each.ГўВҖВқ
Christians and proud! O poor and wretched ones!
That feeble in the mindГўВҖВҷs eye, lean your trust
Upon unstaid perverseness! Know ye not
That we are worms, yet made at last to form
The winged insect, impГўВҖВҷd with angel plumes
That to heavenГўВҖВҷs justice unobstructed soars?
Why buoy ye up aloft your unflegГўВҖВҷd souls?
Abortive then and shapeless ye remain,
Like the untimely embryon of a worm!
As, to support incumbent floor or roof,
For corbel is a figure sometimes seen,
That crumples up its knees unto its breast,
With the feignГўВҖВҷd posture stirring ruth unfeignГўВҖВҷd
In the beholderГўВҖВҷs fancy; so I saw
These fashionГўВҖВҷd, when I noted well their guise.
Each, as his back was laden, came indeed
Or more or less contract; but it appearГўВҖВҷd
As he, who showГўВҖВҷd most patience in his look,
Wailing exclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңI can endure no more.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XI


ГўВҖВңO thou Almighty Father, who dost make
The heavens thy dwelling, not in bounds confinГўВҖВҷd,
But that with love intenser there thou viewГўВҖВҷst
Thy primal effluence, hallowГўВҖВҷd be thy name:
Join each created being to extol
Thy might, for worthy humblest thanks and praise
Is thy blest Spirit. May thy kingdomГўВҖВҷs peace
Come unto us; for we, unless it come,
With all our striving thither tend in vain.
As of their will the angels unto thee
Tender meet sacrifice, circling thy throne
With loud hosannas, so of theirs be done
By saintly men on earth. Grant us this day
Our daily manna, without which he roams
Through this rough desert retrograde, who most
Toils to advance his steps. As we to each
Pardon the evil done us, pardon thou
Benign, and of our merit take no count.
ГўВҖВҷGainst the old adversary prove thou not
Our virtue easily subduГўВҖВҷd; but free
From his incitements and defeat his wiles.
This last petition, dearest Lord! is made
Not for ourselves, since that were needless now,
But for their sakes who after us remain.ГўВҖВқ

Thus for themselves and us good speed imploring,
Those spirits went beneath a weight like that
We sometimes feel in dreams, all, sore beset,
But with unequal anguish, wearied all,
Round the first circuit, purging as they go,
The worldГўВҖВҷs gross darkness off: In our behalf
If there vows still be offerГўВҖВҷd, what can here
For them be vowГўВҖВҷd and done by such, whose wills
Have root of goodness in them? Well beseems
That we should help them wash away the stains
They carried hence, that so made pure and light,
They may spring upward to the starry spheres.

ГўВҖВңAh! so may mercy-temperГўВҖВҷd justice rid
Your burdens speedily, that ye have power
To stretch your wing, which eГўВҖВҷen to your desire
Shall lift you, as ye show us on which hand
Toward the ladder leads the shortest way.
And if there be more passages than one,
Instruct us of that easiest to ascend;
For this man who comes with me, and bears yet
The charge of fleshly raiment Adam left him,
Despite his better will but slowly mounts.ГўВҖВқ
From whom the answer came unto these words,
Which my guide spake, appearГўВҖВҷd not; but ГўВҖВҷtwas said.

ГўВҖВңAlong the bank to rightward come with us,
And ye shall find a pass that mocks not toil
Of living man to climb: and were it not
That I am hinderГўВҖВҷd by the rock, wherewith
This arrogant neck is tamГўВҖВҷd, whence needs I stoop
My visage to the ground, him, who yet lives,
Whose name thou speakГўВҖВҷst not him I fain would view.
To mark if eГўВҖВҷer I knew him? and to crave
His pity for the fardel that I bear.
I was of Latiun, of a Tuscan horn
A mighty one: AldobranlescoГўВҖВҷs name
My sireГўВҖВҷs, I know not if ye eГўВҖВҷer have heard.
My old blood and forefathersГўВҖВҷ gallant deeds
Made me so haughty, that I clean forgot
The common mother, and to such excess,
WaxГўВҖВҷd in my scorn of all men, that I fell,
Fell therefore; by what fate SiennaГўВҖВҷs sons,
Each child in Campagnatico, can tell.
I am Omberto; not me only pride
Hath injurГўВҖВҷd, but my kindred all involvГўВҖВҷd
In mischief with her. Here my lot ordains
Under this weight to groan, till I appease
GodГўВҖВҷs angry justice, since I did it not
Amongst the living, here amongst the dead.ГўВҖВқ

ListГўВҖВҷning I bent my visage down: and one
(Not he who spake) twisted beneath the weight
That urgГўВҖВҷd him, saw me, knew me straight, and callГўВҖВҷd,
Holding his eyes With difficulty fixГўВҖВҷd
Intent upon me, stooping as I went
Companion of their way. ГўВҖВңO!ГўВҖВқ I exclaimГўВҖВҷd,

ГўВҖВңArt thou not Oderigi, art not thou
AgobbioГўВҖВҷs glory, glory of that art
Which they of Paris call the limmerГўВҖВҷs skill?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBrother!ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwith tints that gayer smile,
Bolognian FrancoГўВҖВҷs pencil lines the leaves.
His all the honour now; mine borrowГўВҖВҷd light.
In truth I had not been thus courteous to him,
The whilst I livГўВҖВҷd, through eagerness of zeal
For that pre-eminence my heart was bent on.
Here of such pride the forfeiture is paid.
Nor were I even here; if, able still
To sin, I had not turnГўВҖВҷd me unto God.
O powers of man! how vain your glory, nippГўВҖВҷd
EГўВҖВҷen in its height of verdure, if an age
Less bright succeed not! Cimabue thought
To lord it over paintingГўВҖВҷs field; and now
The cry is GiottoГўВҖВҷs, and his name eclipsГўВҖВҷd.
Thus hath one Guido from the other snatchГўВҖВҷd
The letterГўВҖВҷd prize: and he perhaps is born,
Who shall drive either from their nest. The noise
Of worldly fame is but a blast of wind,
That blows from divers points, and shifts its name
Shifting the point it blows from. Shalt thou more
Live in the mouths of mankind, if thy flesh
Part shrivelГўВҖВҷd from thee, than if thou hadst died,
Before the coral and the pap were left,
Or ere some thousand years have passed? and that
Is, to eternity comparГўВҖВҷd, a space,
Briefer than is the twinkling of an eye
To the heavenГўВҖВҷs slowest orb. He there who treads
So leisurely before me, far and wide
Through Tuscany resounded once; and now
Is in Sienna scarce with whispers namГўВҖВҷd:
There was he sovГўВҖВҷreign, when destruction caught
The maddГўВҖВҷning rage of Florence, in that day
Proud as she now is loathsome. Your renown
Is as the herb, whose hue doth come and go,
And his might withers it, by whom it sprang
Crude from the lap of earth.ГўВҖВқ I thus to him:
ГўВҖВңTrue are thy sayings: to my heart they breathe
The kindly spirit of meekness, and allay
What tumours rankle there. But who is he
Of whom thou spakГўВҖВҷst but now?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңThis,ГўВҖВқ he replied,
ГўВҖВңIs Provenzano. He is here, because
He reachГўВҖВҷd, with grasp presumptuous, at the sway
Of all Sienna. Thus he still hath gone,
Thus goeth never-resting, since he died.
Such is thГўВҖВҷ acquittance renderГўВҖВҷd back of him,
Who, beyond measure, darГўВҖВҷd on earth.ГўВҖВқ I then:
ГўВҖВңIf soul that to the verge of life delays
Repentance, linger in that lower space,
Nor hither mount, unless good prayers befriend,
How chancГўВҖВҷd admittance was vouchsafГўВҖВҷd to him?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhen at his gloryГўВҖВҷs topmost height,ГўВҖВқ said he,
ГўВҖВңRespect of dignity all cast aside,
Freely He fixГўВҖВҷd him on SiennaГўВҖВҷs plain,
A suitor to redeem his suffГўВҖВҷring friend,
Who languishГўВҖВҷd in the prison-house of Charles,
Nor for his sake refusГўВҖВҷd through every vein
To tremble. More I will not say; and dark,
I know, my words are, but thy neighbours soon
Shall help thee to a comment on the text.
This is the work, that from these limits freed him.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XII


With equal pace as oxen in the yoke,
I with that laden spirit journeyГўВҖВҷd on
Long as the mild instructor sufferГўВҖВҷd me;
But when he bade me quit him, and proceed
(For ГўВҖВңhere,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңbehooves with sail and oars
Each man, as best he may, push on his barkГўВҖВқ),
Upright, as one disposГўВҖВҷd for speed, I raisГўВҖВҷd
My body, still in thought submissive bowГўВҖВҷd.

I now my leaderГўВҖВҷs track not loth pursued;
And each had shown how light we farГўВҖВҷd along
When thus he warnГўВҖВҷd me: ГўВҖВңBend thine eyesight down:
For thou to ease the way shall find it good
To ruminate the bed beneath thy feet.ГўВҖВқ

As in memorial of the buried, drawn
Upon earth-level tombs, the sculpturГўВҖВҷd form
Of what was once, appears (at sight whereof
Tears often stream forth by remembrance wakГўВҖВҷd,
Whose sacred stings the piteous only feel),
So saw I there, but with more curious skill
Of portraiture oГўВҖВҷerwrought, whateГўВҖВҷer of space
From forth the mountain stretches. On one part
Him I beheld, above all creatures erst
Created noblest, lightГўВҖВҷning fall from heaven:
On thГўВҖВҷ other side with bolt celestial piercГўВҖВҷd
Briareus: cumbГўВҖВҷring earth he lay through dint
Of mortal ice-stroke. The Thymbraean god
With Mars, I saw, and Pallas, round their sire,
ArmГўВҖВҷd still, and gazing on the giantГўВҖВҷs limbs
Strewn oГўВҖВҷer thГўВҖВҷ ethereal field. Nimrod I saw:
At foot of the stupendous work he stood,
As if bewilderГўВҖВҷd, looking on the crowd
Leagued in his proud attempt on SennaarГўВҖВҷs plain.

O Niobe! in what a trance of woe
Thee I beheld, upon that highway drawn,
SevГўВҖВҷn sons on either side thee slain! O Saul!
How ghastly didst thou look! on thine own sword
Expiring in Gilboa, from that hour
NeГўВҖВҷer visited with rain from heavГўВҖВҷn or dew!

O fond Arachne! thee I also saw
Half spider now in anguish crawling up
ThГўВҖВҷ unfinishГўВҖВҷd web thou weavedГўВҖВҷst to thy bane!

O Rehoboam! here thy shape doth seem
Louring no more defiance! but fear-smote
With none to chase him in his chariot whirlГўВҖВҷd.

Was shown beside upon the solid floor
How dear Alcmaeon forcГўВҖВҷd his mother rate
That ornament in evil hour receivГўВҖВҷd:
How in the temple on Sennacherib fell
His sons, and how a corpse they left him there.
Was shown the scath and cruel mangling made
By Tomyris on Cyrus, when she cried:
ГўВҖВңBlood thou didst thirst for, take thy fill of blood!ГўВҖВқ
Was shown how routed in the battle fled
ThГўВҖВҷ Assyrians, Holofernes slain, and eГўВҖВҷen
The relics of the carnage. Troy I markГўВҖВҷd
In ashes and in caverns. Oh! how fallГўВҖВҷn,
How abject, Ilion, was thy semblance there!

What master of the pencil or the style
Had tracГўВҖВҷd the shades and lines, that might have made
The subtlest workman wonder? Dead the dead,
The living seemГўВҖВҷd alive; with clearer view
His eye beheld not who beheld the truth,
Than mine what I did tread on, while I went
Low bending. Now swell out; and with stiff necks
Pass on, ye sons of Eve! veil not your looks,
Lest they descry the evil of your path!

I noted not (so busied was my thought)
How much we now had circled of the mount,
And of his course yet more the sun had spent,
When he, who with still wakeful caution went,
AdmonishГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңRaise thou up thy head: for know
Time is not now for slow suspense. Behold
That way an angel hasting towards us! Lo
Where duly the sixth handmaid doth return
From service on the day. Wear thou in look
And gesture seemly grace of reverent awe,
That gladly he may forward us aloft.
Consider that this day neГўВҖВҷer dawns again.ГўВҖВқ

TimeГўВҖВҷs loss he had so often warnГўВҖВҷd me ГўВҖВҷgainst,
I could not miss the scope at which he aimГўВҖВҷd.

The goodly shape approachГўВҖВҷd us, snowy white
In vesture, and with visage casting streams
Of tremulous lustre like the matin star.
His arms he openГўВҖВҷd, then his wings; and spake:
ГўВҖВңOnward: the steps, behold! are near; and now
ThГўВҖВҷ ascent is without difficulty gainГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

A scanty few are they, who when they hear
Such tidings, hasten. O ye race of men
Though born to soar, why suffer ye a wind
So slight to baffle ye? He led us on
Where the rock parted; here against my front
Did beat his wings, then promisГўВҖВҷd I should fare
In safety on my way. As to ascend
That steep, upon whose brow the chapel stands
(OГўВҖВҷer Rubaconte, looking lordly down
On the well-guided city,) up the right
ThГўВҖВҷ impetuous rise is broken by the steps
CarvГўВҖВҷd in that old and simple age, when still
The registry and label rested safe;
Thus is thГўВҖВҷ acclivity relievГўВҖВҷd, which here
Precipitous from the other circuit falls:
But on each hand the tall cliff presses close.

As entГўВҖВҷring there we turnГўВҖВҷd, voices, in strain
Ineffable, sang: ГўВҖВңBlessed are the poor
In spirit.ГўВҖВқ Ah how far unlike to these
The straits of hell; here songs to usher us,
There shrieks of woe! We climb the holy stairs:
And lighter to myself by far I seemГўВҖВҷd
Than on the plain before, whence thus I spake:
ГўВҖВңSay, master, of what heavy thing have I
Been lightenГўВҖВҷd, that scarce aught the sense of toil
Affects me journeying?ГўВҖВқ He in few replied:
ГўВҖВңWhen sinГўВҖВҷs broad characters, that yet remain
Upon thy temples, though well nigh effacГўВҖВҷd,
Shall be, as one is, all clean razed out,
Then shall thy feet by heartiness of will
Be so oГўВҖВҷercome, they not alone shall feel
No sense of labour, but delight much more
Shall wait them urgГўВҖВҷd along their upward way.ГўВҖВқ

Then like to one, upon whose head is placГўВҖВҷd
Somewhat he deems not of but from the becks
Of others as they pass him by; his hand
Lends therefore help toГўВҖВҷ assure him, searches, finds,
And well performs such office as the eye
Wants power to execute: so stretching forth
The fingers of my right hand, did I find
Six only of the letters, which his sword
Who bare the keys had tracГўВҖВҷd upon my brow.
The leader, as he markГўВҖВҷd mine action, smilГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO XIII


We reachГўВҖВҷd the summit of the scale, and stood
Upon the second buttress of that mount
Which healeth him who climbs. A cornice there,
Like to the former, girdles round the hill;
Save that its arch with sweep less ample bends.

Shadow nor image there is seen; all smooth
The rampart and the path, reflecting nought
But the rockГўВҖВҷs sullen hue. ГўВҖВңIf here we wait
For some to question,ГўВҖВқ said the bard, ГўВҖВңI fear
Our choice may haply meet too long delay.ГўВҖВқ

Then fixedly upon the sun his eyes
He fastnГўВҖВҷd, made his right the central point
From whence to move, and turnГўВҖВҷd the left aside.
ГўВҖВңO pleasant light, my confidence and hope,
Conduct us thou,ГўВҖВқ he cried, ГўВҖВңon this new way,
Where now I venture, leading to the bourn
We seek. The universal world to thee
Owes warmth and lustre. If no other cause
Forbid, thy beams should ever be our guide.ГўВҖВқ

Far, as is measurГўВҖВҷd for a mile on earth,
In brief space had we journeyГўВҖВҷd; such prompt will
ImpellГўВҖВҷd; and towards us flying, now were heard
Spirits invisible, who courteously
Unto loveГўВҖВҷs table bade the welcome guest.
The voice, that first? flew by, callГўВҖВҷd forth aloud,
ГўВҖВңThey have no wine;ГўВҖВқ so on behind us past,
Those sounds reiterating, nor yet lost
In the faint distance, when another came
Crying, ГўВҖВңI am Orestes,ГўВҖВқ and alike
WingГўВҖВҷd its fleet way. ГўВҖВңOh father!ГўВҖВқ I exclaimГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңWhat tongues are these?ГўВҖВқ and as I questionГўВҖВҷd, lo!
A third exclaiming, ГўВҖВңLove ye those have wrongГўВҖВҷd you.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThis circuit,ГўВҖВқ said my teacher, ГўВҖВңknots the scourge
For envy, and the cords are therefore drawn
By charityГўВҖВҷs correcting hand. The curb
Is of a harsher sound, as thou shalt hear
(If I deem rightly), ere thou reach the pass,
Where pardon sets them free. But fix thine eyes
Intently through the air, and thou shalt see
A multitude before thee seated, each
Along the shelving grot.ГўВҖВқ Then more than erst
I opГўВҖВҷd my eyes, before me viewГўВҖВҷd, and saw
Shadows with garments dark as was the rock;
And when we passГўВҖВҷd a little forth, I heard
A crying, ГўВҖВңBlessed Mary! pray for us,
Michael and Peter! all ye saintly host!ГўВҖВқ

I do not think there walks on earth this day
Man so remorseless, that he hath not yearnГўВҖВҷd
With pity at the sight that next I saw.
Mine eyes a load of sorrow teemed, when now
I stood so near them, that their semblances
Came clearly to my view. Of sackcloth vile
Their covГўВҖВҷring seemГўВҖВҷd; and on his shoulder one
Did stay another, leaning, and all leanГўВҖВҷd
Against the cliff. EГўВҖВҷen thus the blind and poor,
Near the confessionals, to crave an alms,
Stand, each his head upon his fellowГўВҖВҷs sunk,

So most to stir compassion, not by sound
Of words alone, but that, which moves not less,
The sight of misГўВҖВҷry. And as never beam
Of noonday visiteth the eyeless man,
EГўВҖВҷen so was heavГўВҖВҷn a niggard unto these
Of his fair light; for, through the orbs of all,
A thread of wire, impiercing, knits them up,
As for the taming of a haggard hawk.

It were a wrong, methought, to pass and look
On others, yet myself the while unseen.
To my sage counsel therefore did I turn.
He knew the meaning of the mute appeal,
Nor waited for my questioning, but said:
ГўВҖВңSpeak; and be brief, be subtle in thy words.ГўВҖВқ

On that part of the cornice, whence no rim
Engarlands its steep fall, did Virgil come;
On theГўВҖВҷ other side me were the spirits, their cheeks
Bathing devout with penitential tears,
That through the dread impalement forcГўВҖВҷd a way.

I turnГўВҖВҷd me to them, and ГўВҖВңO shades!ГўВҖВқ said I,

ГўВҖВңAssurГўВҖВҷd that to your eyes unveilГўВҖВҷd shall shine
The lofty light, sole object of your wish,
So may heavenГўВҖВҷs grace clear whatsoeГўВҖВҷer of foam
Floats turbid on the conscience, that thenceforth
The stream of mind roll limpid from its source,
As ye declare (for so shall ye impart
A boon I dearly prize) if any soul
Of Latium dwell among ye; and perchance
That soul may profit, if I learn so much.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy brother, we are each one citizens
Of one true city. Any thou wouldst say,
Who lived a stranger in ItaliaГўВҖВҷs land.ГўВҖВқ

So heard I answering, as appealГўВҖВҷd, a voice
That onward came some space from whence I stood.

A spirit I noted, in whose look was markГўВҖВҷd
Expectance. Ask ye how? The chin was raisГўВҖВҷd
As in one reft of sight. ГўВҖВңSpirit,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңWho for thy rise are tutoring (if thou be
That which didst answer to me,) or by place
Or name, disclose thyself, that I may know thee.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was,ГўВҖВқ it answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңof Sienna: here
I cleanse away with these the evil life,
Soliciting with tears that He, who is,
Vouchsafe him to us. Though Sapia namГўВҖВҷd
In sapience I excellГўВҖВҷd not, gladder far
Of othersГўВҖВҷ hurt, than of the good befell me.
That thou mayst own I now deceive thee not,
Hear, if my folly were not as I speak it.
When now my years slopГўВҖВҷd waning down the arch,
It so bechancГўВҖВҷd, my fellow citizens
Near Colle met their enemies in the field,
And I prayГўВҖВҷd God to grant what He had willГўВҖВҷd.
There were they vanquishГўВҖВҷd, and betook themselves
Unto the bitter passages of flight.
I markГўВҖВҷd the hunt, and waxing out of bounds
In gladness, lifted up my shameless brow,
And like the merlin cheated by a gleam,
Cried, ГўВҖВңIt is over. HeavГўВҖВҷn! I fear thee not.ГўВҖВқ
Upon my verge of life I wishГўВҖВҷd for peace
With God; nor repentance had supplied
What I did lack of duty, were it not
The hermit Piero, touchГўВҖВҷd with charity,
In his devout orisons thought on me.
ГўВҖВңBut who art thou that questionГўВҖВҷst of our state,
Who goГўВҖВҷst to my belief, with lids unclosГўВҖВҷd,
And breathest in thy talk?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMine eyes,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңMay yet be here taГўВҖВҷen from me; but not long;
For they have not offended grievously
With envious glances. But the woe beneath
Urges my soul with more exceeding dread.
That nether load already weighs me down.ГўВҖВқ

She thus: ГўВҖВңWho then amongst us here aloft
Hath brought thee, if thou weenest to return?

ГўВҖВңHe,ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd I, ГўВҖВңwho standeth mute beside me.
I live: of me ask therefore, chosen spirit,
If thou desire I yonder yet should move
For thee my mortal feet.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңOh!ГўВҖВқ she replied,
ГўВҖВңThis is so strange a thing, it is great sign
That God doth love thee. Therefore with thy prayer
Sometime assist me: and by that I crave,
Which most thou covetest, that if thy feet
EГўВҖВҷer tread on Tuscan soil, thou save my fame
Amongst my kindred. Them shalt thou behold
With that vain multitude, who set their hope
On TelamoneГўВҖВҷs haven, there to fail
Confounded, more shall when the fancied stream
They sought of Dian callГўВҖВҷd: but they who lead
Their navies, more than ruinГўВҖВҷd hopes shall mourn.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XIV


ГўВҖВңSay who is he around our mountain winds,
Or ever death has prunГўВҖВҷd his wing for flight,
That opes his eyes and covers them at will?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI know not who he is, but know thus much
He comes not singly. Do thou ask of him,
For thou art nearer to him, and take heed
Accost him gently, so that he may speak.ГўВҖВқ

Thus on the right two Spirits bending each
Toward the other, talkГўВҖВҷd of me, then both
Addressing me, their faces backward leanГўВҖВҷd,
And thus the one began: ГўВҖВңO soul, who yet
Pent in the body, tendest towards the sky!
For charity, we pray theeГўВҖВҷ comfort us,
Recounting whence thou comГўВҖВҷst, and who thou art:
For thou dost make us at the favour shown thee
Marvel, as at a thing that neГўВҖВҷer hath been.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThere stretches through the midst of Tuscany,ГўВҖВқ
I straight began: ГўВҖВңa brooklet, whose well-head
Springs up in Falterona, with his race
Not satisfied, when he some hundred miles
Hath measurГўВҖВҷd. From his banks bring, I this frame.
To tell you who I am were words misspent:
For yet my name scarce sounds on rumourГўВҖВҷs lip.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf well I do incorpГўВҖВҷrate with my thought
The meaning of thy speech,ГўВҖВқ said he, who first
Addrest me, ГўВҖВңthou dost speak of ArnoГўВҖВҷs wave.ГўВҖВқ

To whom the other: ГўВҖВңWhy hath he concealГўВҖВҷd
The title of that river, as a man
Doth of some horrible thing?ГўВҖВқ The spirit, who
Thereof was questionГўВҖВҷd, did acquit him thus:
ГўВҖВңI know not: but ГўВҖВҷtis fitting well the name
Should perish of that vale; for from the source
Where teems so plenteously the Alpine steep
MaimГўВҖВҷd of Pelorus, (that doth scarcely pass
Beyond that limit,) even to the point
Whereunto ocean is restorГўВҖВҷd, what heaven
Drains from thГўВҖВҷ exhaustless store for all earthГўВҖВҷs streams,
Throughout the space is virtue worried down,
As ГўВҖВҷtwere a snake, by all, for mortal foe,
Or through disastrous influence on the place,
Or else distortion of misguided wills,
That custom goads to evil: whence in those,
The dwellers in that miserable vale,
Nature is so transformГўВҖВҷd, it seems as they
Had sharГўВҖВҷd of CirceГўВҖВҷs feeding. ГўВҖВҷMidst brute swine,
Worthier of acorns than of other food
Created for manГўВҖВҷs use, he shapeth first
His obscure way; then, sloping onward, finds
Curs, snarlers more in spite than power, from whom
He turns with scorn aside: still journeying down,
By how much more the curst and luckless foss
Swells out to largeness, eГўВҖВҷen so much it finds
Dogs turning into wolves. Descending still
Through yet more hollow eddies, next he meets
A race of foxes, so replete with craft,
They do not fear that skill can master it.
Nor will I cease because my words are heard
By other ears than thine. It shall be well
For this man, if he keep in memory
What from no erring Spirit I reveal.
Lo! I behold thy grandson, that becomes
A hunter of those wolves, upon the shore
Of the fierce stream, and cows them all with dread:
Their flesh yet living sets he up to sale,
Then like an aged beast to slaughter dooms.
Many of life he reaves, himself of worth
And goodly estimation. SmearГўВҖВҷd with gore
Mark how he issues from the rueful wood,
Leaving such havoc, that in thousand years
It spreads not to prime lustihood again.ГўВҖВқ

As one, who tidings hears of woe to come,
Changes his looks perturbГўВҖВҷd, from whateГўВҖВҷer part
The peril grasp him, so beheld I change
That spirit, who had turnГўВҖВҷd to listen, struck
With sadness, soon as he had caught the word.

His visage and the otherГўВҖВҷs speech did raise
Desire in me to know the names of both,
whereof with meek entreaty I inquirГўВҖВҷd.

The shade, who late addrest me, thus resumГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңThy wish imports that I vouchsafe to do
For thy sake what thou wilt not do for mine.
But since GodГўВҖВҷs will is that so largely shine
His grace in thee, I will be liberal too.
Guido of Duca know then that I am.
Envy so parchГўВҖВҷd my blood, that had I seen
A fellow man made joyous, thou hadst markГўВҖВҷd
A livid paleness overspread my cheek.
Such harvest reap I of the seed I sowГўВҖВҷd.
O man, why place thy heart where there doth need
Exclusion of participants in good?
This is RinieriГўВҖВҷs spirit, this the boast
And honour of the house of Calboli,
Where of his worth no heritage remains.
Nor his the only blood, that hath been stript
(ГўВҖВҷtwixt Po, the mount, the Reno, and the shore,)
Of all that truth or fancy asks for bliss;
But in those limits such a growth has sprung
Of rank and venomГўВҖВҷd roots, as long would mock
Slow cultureГўВҖВҷs toil. Where is good Lizio? where
Manardi, Traversalo, and Carpigna?
O bastard slips of old RomagnaГўВҖВҷs line!
When in Bologna the low artisan,
And in Faenza yon Bernardin sprouts,
A gentle cyon from ignoble stem.
Wonder not, Tuscan, if thou see me weep,
When I recall to mind those once lovГўВҖВҷd names,
Guido of Prata, and of Azzo him
That dwelt with you; Tignoso and his troop,
With TraversaroГўВҖВҷs house and AnastagioГўВҖВҷs,
(Each race disherited) and beside these,
The ladies and the knights, the toils and ease,
That witchГўВҖВҷd us into love and courtesy;
Where now such malice reigns in recreant hearts.
O Brettinoro! wherefore tarriest still,
Since forth of thee thy family hath gone,
And many, hating evil, joinГўВҖВҷd their steps?
Well doeth he, that bids his lineage cease,
Bagnacavallo; Castracaro ill,
And Conio worse, who care to propagate
A race of Counties from such blood as theirs.
Well shall ye also do, Pagani, then
When from amongst you tries your demon child.
Not so, howeГўВҖВҷer, that henceforth there remain
True proof of what ye were. O Hugolin!
Thou sprung of FantoliniГўВҖВҷs line! thy name
Is safe, since none is lookГўВҖВҷd for after thee
To cloud its lustre, warping from thy stock.
But, Tuscan, go thy ways; for now I take
Far more delight in weeping than in words.
Such pity for your sakes hath wrung my heart.ГўВҖВқ

We knew those gentle spirits at parting heard
Our steps. Their silence therefore of our way
AssurГўВҖВҷd us. Soon as we had quitted them,
Advancing onward, lo! a voice that seemГўВҖВҷd
Like vollied lightГўВҖВҷning, when it rives the air,
Met us, and shouted, ГўВҖВңWhosoever finds
Will slay me,ГўВҖВқ then fled from us, as the bolt
LancГўВҖВҷd sudden from a downward-rushing cloud.
When it had givГўВҖВҷn short truce unto our hearing,
Behold the other with a crash as loud
As the quick-following thunder: ГўВҖВңMark in me
Aglauros turnГўВҖВҷd to rock.ГўВҖВқ I at the sound
Retreating drew more closely to my guide.

Now in mute stillness rested all the air:
And thus he spake: ГўВҖВңThere was the galling bit.
But your old enemy so baits his hook,
He drags you eager to him. Hence nor curb
Avails you, nor reclaiming call. HeavГўВҖВҷn calls
And round about you wheeling courts your gaze
With everlasting beauties. Yet your eye
Turns with fond doting still upon the earth.
Therefore He smites you who discerneth all.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XV


As much as ГўВҖВҷtwixt the third hourГўВҖВҷs close and dawn,
Appeareth of heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs sphere, that ever whirls
As restless as an infant in his play,
So much appearГўВҖВҷd remaining to the sun
Of his slope journey towards the western goal.

Evening was there, and here the noon of night;
and full upon our forehead smote the beams.
For round the mountain, circling, so our path
Had led us, that toward the sun-set now
Direct we journeyГўВҖВҷd: when I felt a weight
Of more exceeding splendour, than before,
Press on my front. The cause unknown, amaze
PossessГўВҖВҷd me, and both hands against my brow
Lifting, I interposГўВҖВҷd them, as a screen,
That of its gorgeous superflux of light
ClippГўВҖВҷd the diminishГўВҖВҷd orb. As when the ray,
Striking On water or the surface clear
Of mirror, leaps unto the opposite part,
Ascending at a glance, eГўВҖВҷen as it fell,
(And so much differs from the stone, that falls)
Through equal space, as practice skill hath shown;
Thus with refracted light before me seemed
The ground there smitten; whence in sudden haste
My sight recoilГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңWhat is this, sire belovГўВҖВҷd!
ГўВҖВҷGainst which I strive to shield the sight in vain?ГўВҖВқ
Cried I, ГўВҖВңand which towards us moving seems?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMarvel not, if the family of heavГўВҖВҷn,ГўВҖВқ
He answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңyet with dazzling radiance dim
Thy sense it is a messenger who comes,
Inviting manГўВҖВҷs ascent. Such sights ere long,
Not grievous, shall impart to thee delight,
As thy perception is by nature wrought
Up to their pitch.ГўВҖВқ The blessed angel, soon
As we had reachГўВҖВҷd him, hailГўВҖВҷd us with glad voice:
ГўВҖВңHere enter on a ladder far less steep
Than ye have yet encounterГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ We forthwith
Ascending, heard behind us chanted sweet,
ГўВҖВңBlessed the merciful,ГўВҖВқ and ГўВҖВңhappy thou!
That conquerГўВҖВҷst.ГўВҖВқ Lonely each, my guide and I
Pursued our upward way; and as we went,
Some profit from his words I hopГўВҖВҷd to win,
And thus of him inquiring, framГўВҖВҷd my speech:

ГўВҖВңWhat meant RomagnaГўВҖВҷs spirit, when he spake
Of bliss exclusive with no partner sharГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқ

He straight replied: ГўВҖВңNo wonder, since he knows,
What sorrow waits on his own worst defect,
If he chide others, that they less may mourn.
Because ye point your wishes at a mark,
Where, by communion of possessors, part
Is lessenГўВҖВҷd, envy bloweth up the sighs of men.
No fear of that might touch ye, if the love
Of higher sphere exalted your desire.
For there, by how much more they call it ours,
So much propriety of each in good
Increases more, and heightenГўВҖВҷd charity
Wraps that fair cloister in a brighter flame.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow lack I satisfaction more,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңThan if thou hadst been silent at the first,
And doubt more gathers on my labГўВҖВҷring thought.
How can it chance, that good distributed,
The many, that possess it, makes more rich,
Than if ГўВҖВҷt were sharГўВҖВҷd by few?ГўВҖВқ He answering thus:
ГўВҖВңThy mind, reverting still to things of earth,
Strikes darkness from true light. The highest good
Unlimited, ineffable, doth so speed
To love, as beam to lucid body darts,
Giving as much of ardour as it finds.
The sempiternal effluence streams abroad
Spreading, wherever charity extends.
So that the more aspirants to that bliss
Are multiplied, more good is there to love,
And more is lovГўВҖВҷd; as mirrors, that reflect,
Each unto other, propagated light.
If these my words avail not to allay
Thy thirsting, Beatrice thou shalt see,
Who of this want, and of all else thou hast,
Shall rid thee to the full. Provide but thou
That from thy temples may be soon erasГўВҖВҷd,
EГўВҖВҷen as the two already, those five scars,
That when they pain thee worst, then kindliest heal,ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThou,ГўВҖВқ I had said, ГўВҖВңcontentГўВҖВҷst me,ГўВҖВқ when I saw
The other round was gainГўВҖВҷd, and wondГўВҖВҷring eyes
Did keep me mute. There suddenly I seemГўВҖВҷd
By an ecstatic vision wrapt away;
And in a temple saw, methought, a crowd
Of many persons; and at thГўВҖВҷ entrance stood
A dame, whose sweet demeanour did express
A motherГўВҖВҷs love, who said, ГўВҖВңChild! why hast thou
Dealt with us thus? Behold thy sire and I
Sorrowing have sought thee;ГўВҖВқ and so held her peace,
And straight the vision fled. A female next
AppearГўВҖВҷd before me, down whose visage coursГўВҖВҷd
Those waters, that grief forces out from one
By deep resentment stung, who seemГўВҖВҷd to say:
ГўВҖВңIf thou, Pisistratus, be lord indeed
Over this city, namГўВҖВҷd with such debate
Of adverse gods, and whence each science sparkles,
Avenge thee of those arms, whose bold embrace
Hath claspГўВҖВҷd our daughter; ГўВҖВңand to fuel, meseemГўВҖВҷd,
Benign and meek, with visage undisturbГўВҖВҷd,
Her sovran spake: ГўВҖВңHow shall we those requite,
Who wish us evil, if we thus condemn
The man that loves us?ГўВҖВқ After that I saw
A multitude, in fury burning, slay
With stones a stripling youth, and shout amain
ГўВҖВңDestroy, destroy!ГўВҖВқ and him I saw, who bowГўВҖВҷd
Heavy with death unto the ground, yet made
His eyes, unfolded upward, gates to heavГўВҖВҷn,

Praying forgiveness of thГўВҖВҷ Almighty Sire,
Amidst that cruel conflict, on his foes,
With looks, that With compassion to their aim.

Soon as my spirit, from her airy flight
Returning, sought again the things, whose truth
Depends not on her shaping, I observГўВҖВҷd
How she had rovГўВҖВҷd to no unreal scenes

Meanwhile the leader, who might see I movГўВҖВҷd,
As one, who struggles to shake off his sleep,
ExclaimГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңWhat ails thee, that thou canst not hold
Thy footing firm, but more than half a league
Hast travelГўВҖВҷd with closГўВҖВҷd eyes and tottГўВҖВҷring gait,
Like to a man by wine or sleep oГўВҖВҷerchargГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBeloved father! so thou deign,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңTo listen, I will tell thee what appearГўВҖВҷd
Before me, when so failГўВҖВҷd my sinking steps.ГўВҖВқ

He thus: ГўВҖВңNot if thy Countenance were maskГўВҖВҷd
With hundred vizards, could a thought of thine
How small soeГўВҖВҷer, elude me. What thou sawГўВҖВҷst
Was shown, that freely thou mightst ope thy heart
To the waters of peace, that flow diffusГўВҖВҷd
From their eternal fountain. I not askГўВҖВҷd,
What ails thee? for such cause as he doth, who
Looks only with that eye which sees no more,
When spiritless the body lies; but askГўВҖВҷd,
To give fresh vigour to thy foot. Such goads
The slow and loitГўВҖВҷring need; that they be found
Not wanting, when their hour of watch returns.ГўВҖВқ

So on we journeyГўВҖВҷd through the evening sky
Gazing intent, far onward, as our eyes
With level view could stretch against the bright
Vespertine ray: and lo! by slow degrees
GathГўВҖВҷring, a fog made towГўВҖВҷrds us, dark as night.
There was no room for ГўВҖВҷscaping; and that mist
Bereft us, both of sight and the pure air.




CANTO XVI


HellГўВҖВҷs dunnest gloom, or night unlustrous, dark,
Of every planes ГўВҖВҷreft, and pallГўВҖВҷd in clouds,
Did never spread before the sight a veil
In thickness like that fog, nor to the sense
So palpable and gross. EntГўВҖВҷring its shade,
Mine eye endured not with unclosed lids;
Which marking, near me drew the faithful guide,
Offering me his shoulder for a stay.

As the blind man behind his leader walks,
Lest he should err, or stumble unawares
On what might harm him, or perhaps destroy,
I journeyГўВҖВҷd through that bitter air and foul,
Still listГўВҖВҷning to my escortГўВҖВҷs warning voice,
ГўВҖВңLook that from me thou part not.ГўВҖВқ Straight I heard
Voices, and each one seemГўВҖВҷd to pray for peace,
And for compassion, to the Lamb of God
That taketh sins away. Their prelude still
Was ГўВҖВңAgnus Dei,ГўВҖВқ and through all the choir,
One voice, one measure ran, that perfect seemГўВҖВҷd
The concord of their song. ГўВҖВңAre these I hear
Spirits, O master?ГўВҖВқ I exclaimГўВҖВҷd; and he:
ГўВҖВңThou aimГўВҖВҷst aright: these loose the bonds of wrath.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңNow who art thou, that through our smoke dost cleave?
And speakГўВҖВҷst of us, as thou thyself eГўВҖВҷen yet
Dividest time by calends?ГўВҖВқ So one voice
Bespake me; whence my master said: ГўВҖВңReply;
And ask, if upward hence the passage lead.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO being! who dost make thee pure, to stand
Beautiful once more in thy MakerГўВҖВҷs sight!
Along with me: and thou shalt hear and wonder.ГўВҖВқ
Thus I, whereto the spirit answering spake:

ГўВҖВңLong as ГўВҖВҷt is lawful for me, shall my steps
Follow on thine; and since the cloudy smoke
Forbids the seeing, hearing in its stead
Shall keep us joinГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ I then forthwith began
ГўВҖВңYet in my mortal swathing, I ascend
To higher regions, and am hither come
Through the fearful agony of hell.
And, if so largely God hath doled his grace,
That, clean beside all modern precedent,
He wills me to behold his kingly state,
From me conceal not who thou wast, ere death
Had loosГўВҖВҷd thee; but instruct me: and instruct
If rightly to the pass I tend; thy words
The way directing as a safe escort.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI was of Lombardy, and Marco callГўВҖВҷd:
Not inexperiencГўВҖВҷd of the world, that worth
I still affected, from which all have turnГўВҖВҷd
The nerveless bow aside. Thy course tends right
Unto the summit:ГўВҖВқ and, replying thus,
He added, ГўВҖВңI beseech thee pray for me,
When thou shalt come aloft.ГўВҖВқ And I to him:
ГўВҖВңAccept my faith for pledge I will perform
What thou requirest. Yet one doubt remains,
That wrings me sorely, if I solve it not,
Singly before it urgГўВҖВҷd me, doubled now
By thine opinion, when I couple that
With one elsewhere declarГўВҖВҷd, each strengthГўВҖВҷning other.
The world indeed is even so forlorn
Of all good as thou speakГўВҖВҷst it and so swarms
With every evil. Yet, beseech thee, point
The cause out to me, that myself may see,
And unto others show it: for in heaven
One places it, and one on earth below.ГўВҖВқ

Then heaving forth a deep and audible sigh,
ГўВҖВңBrother!ГўВҖВқ he thus began, ГўВҖВңthe world is blind;
And thou in truth comГўВҖВҷst from it. Ye, who live,
Do so each cause refer to heavГўВҖВҷn above,
EГўВҖВҷen as its motion of necessity
Drew with it all that moves. If this were so,
Free choice in you were none; nor justice would
There should be joy for virtue, woe for ill.
Your movements have their primal bent from heaven;
Not all; yet said I all; what then ensues?
Light have ye still to follow evil or good,
And of the will free power, which, if it stand
Firm and unwearied in HeavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs first assay,
Conquers at last, so it be cherishГўВҖВҷd well,
Triumphant over all. To mightier force,
To better nature subject, ye abide
Free, not constrainГўВҖВҷd by that, which forms in you
The reasoning mind uninfluencГўВҖВҷd of the stars.
If then the present race of mankind err,
Seek in yourselves the cause, and find it there.
Herein thou shalt confess me no false spy.

ГўВҖВңForth from his plastic hand, who charmГўВҖВҷd beholds
Her image ere she yet exist, the soul
Comes like a babe, that wantons sportively
Weeping and laughing in its wayward moods,
As artless and as ignorant of aught,
Save that her Maker being one who dwells
With gladness ever, willingly she turns
To whateГўВҖВҷer yields her joy. Of some slight good
The flavour soon she tastes; and, snarГўВҖВҷd by that,
With fondness she pursues it, if no guide
Recall, no rein direct her wandГўВҖВҷring course.
Hence it behovГўВҖВҷd, the law should be a curb;
A sovereign hence behovГўВҖВҷd, whose piercing view
Might mark at least the fortress and main tower
Of the true city. Laws indeed there are:
But who is he observes them? None; not he,
Who goes before, the shepherd of the flock,
Who chews the cud but doth not cleave the hoof.
Therefore the multitude, who see their guide
Strike at the very good they covet most,
Feed there and look no further. Thus the cause
Is not corrupted nature in yourselves,
But ill-conducting, that hath turnГўВҖВҷd the world
To evil. Rome, that turnГўВҖВҷd it unto good,
Was wont to boast two suns, whose several beams
Cast light on either way, the worldГўВҖВҷs and GodГўВҖВҷs.
One since hath quenchГўВҖВҷd the other; and the sword
Is grafted on the crook; and so conjoinГўВҖВҷd
Each must perforce decline to worse, unawГўВҖВҷd
By fear of other. If thou doubt me, mark
The blade: each herb is judgГўВҖВҷd of by its seed.
That land, through which Adice and the Po
Their waters roll, was once the residence
Of courtesy and velour, ere the day,
That frownГўВҖВҷd on Frederick; now secure may pass
Those limits, whosoeГўВҖВҷer hath left, for shame,
To talk with good men, or come near their haunts.
Three aged ones are still found there, in whom
The old time chides the new: these deem it long
Ere God restore them to a better world:
The good Gherardo, of Palazzo he
Conrad, and Guido of Castello, namГўВҖВҷd
In Gallic phrase more fitly the plain Lombard.
On this at last conclude. The church of Rome,
Mixing two governments that ill assort,
Hath missГўВҖВҷd her footing, fallГўВҖВҷn into the mire,
And there herself and burden much defilГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO Marco!ГўВҖВқ I replied, shine arguments
Convince me: and the cause I now discern
Why of the heritage no portion came
To LeviГўВҖВҷs offspring. But resolve me this
Who that Gherardo is, that as thou sayst
Is left a sample of the perishГўВҖВҷd race,
And for rebuke to this untoward age?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEither thy words,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңdeceive; or else
Are meant to try me; that thou, speaking Tuscan,
AppearГўВҖВҷst not to have heard of good Gherado;
The sole addition that, by which I know him;
Unless I borrowГўВҖВҷd from his daughter Gaia
Another name to grace him. God be with you.
I bear you company no more. Behold
The dawn with white ray glimmГўВҖВҷring through the mist.
I must awayГўВҖВ”the angel comesГўВҖВ”ere he
Appear.ГўВҖВқ He said, and would not hear me more.




CANTO XVII


Call to remembrance, reader, if thou eГўВҖВҷer
Hast, on a mountain top, been taГўВҖВҷen by cloud,
Through which thou sawГўВҖВҷst no better, than the mole
Doth through opacous membrane; then, wheneГўВҖВҷer
The watГўВҖВҷry vapours dense began to melt
Into thin air, how faintly the sunГўВҖВҷs sphere
SeemГўВҖВҷd wading through them; so thy nimble thought
May image, how at first I re-beheld
The sun, that bedward now his couch oГўВҖВҷerhung.

Thus with my leaderГўВҖВҷs feet still equaling pace
From forth that cloud I came, when now expirГўВҖВҷd
The parting beams from off the nether shores.

O quick and forgetive power! that sometimes dost
So rob us of ourselves, we take no mark
Though round about us thousand trumpets clang!
What moves thee, if the senses stir not? Light
Kindled in heavГўВҖВҷn, spontaneous, self-informГўВҖВҷd,
Or likelier gliding down with swift illapse
By will divine. PortrayГўВҖВҷd before me came
The traces of her dire impiety,
Whose form was changГўВҖВҷd into the bird, that most
Delights itself in song: and here my mind
Was inwardly so wrapt, it gave no place
To aught that askГўВҖВҷd admittance from without.

Next showerГўВҖВҷd into my fantasy a shape
As of one crucified, whose visage spake
Fell rancour, malice deep, wherein he died;
And round him Ahasuerus the great king,
Esther his bride, and Mordecai the just,
Blameless in word and deed. As of itself
That unsubstantial coinage of the brain
Burst, like a bubble, Which the water fails
That fed it; in my vision straight uprose
A damsel weeping loud, and cried, ГўВҖВңO queen!
O mother! wherefore has intemperate ire
DrivГўВҖВҷn thee to loath thy being? Not to lose
Lavinia, despГўВҖВҷrate thou hast slain thyself.
Now hast thou lost me. I am she, whose tears
Mourn, ere I fall, a motherГўВҖВҷs timeless end.ГўВҖВқ

EГўВҖВҷen as a sleep breaks off, if suddenly
New radiance strike upon the closed lids,
The broken slumber quivering ere it dies;
Thus from before me sunk that imagery
Vanishing, soon as on my face there struck
The light, outshining far our earthly beam.
As round I turnГўВҖВҷd me to survey what place
I had arrivГўВҖВҷd at, ГўВҖВңHere ye mount,ГўВҖВқ exclaimГўВҖВҷd
A voice, that other purpose left me none,
Save will so eager to behold who spake,
I could not choose but gaze. As ГўВҖВҷfore the sun,
That weighs our vision down, and veils his form
In light transcendent, thus my virtue failГўВҖВҷd
Unequal. ГўВҖВңThis is Spirit from above,
Who marshals us our upward way, unsought;
And in his own light shrouds him. As a man
Doth for himself, so now is done for us.
For whoso waits imploring, yet sees need
Of his prompt aidance, sets himself preparГўВҖВҷd
For blunt denial, ere the suit be made.
Refuse we not to lend a ready foot
At such inviting: haste we to ascend,
Before it darken: for we may not then,
Till morn again return.ГўВҖВқ So spake my guide;
And to one ladder both addressГўВҖВҷd our steps;
And the first stair approaching, I perceivГўВҖВҷd
Near me as ГўВҖВҷtwere the waving of a wing,
That fannГўВҖВҷd my face and whisperГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңBlessed they
The peacemakers: they know not evil wrath.ГўВҖВқ

Now to such height above our heads were raisГўВҖВҷd
The last beams, followГўВҖВҷd close by hooded night,
That many a star on all sides through the gloom
Shone out. ГўВҖВңWhy partest from me, O my strength?ГўВҖВқ
So with myself I communГўВҖВҷd; for I felt
My oГўВҖВҷertoilГўВҖВҷd sinews slacken. We had reachГўВҖВҷd
The summit, and were fixГўВҖВҷd like to a bark
ArrivГўВҖВҷd at land. And waiting a short space,
If aught should meet mine ear in that new round,
Then to my guide I turnГўВҖВҷd, and said: ГўВҖВңLovГўВҖВҷd sire!
Declare what guilt is on this circle purgГўВҖВҷd.
If our feet rest, no need thy speech should pause.ГўВҖВқ

He thus to me: ГўВҖВңThe love of good, whateГўВҖВҷer
Wanted of just proportion, here fulfils.
Here plies afresh the oar, that loiterГўВҖВҷd ill.
But that thou mayst yet clearlier understand,
Give ear unto my words, and thou shalt cull
Some fruit may please thee well, from this delay.

ГўВҖВңCreator, nor created being, neГўВҖВҷer,
My son,ГўВҖВқ he thus began, ГўВҖВңwas without love,
Or natural, or the free spiritГўВҖВҷs growth.
Thou hast not that to learn. The natural still
Is without error; but the other swerves,
If on ill object bent, or through excess
Of vigour, or defect. While eГўВҖВҷer it seeks
The primal blessings, or with measure due
ThГўВҖВҷ inferior, no delight, that flows from it,
Partakes of ill. But let it warp to evil,
Or with more ardour than behooves, or less.
Pursue the good, the thing created then
Works ГўВҖВҷgainst its Maker. Hence thou must infer
That love is germin of each virtue in ye,
And of each act no less, that merits pain.
Now since it may not be, but love intend
The welfare mainly of the thing it loves,
All from self-hatred are secure; and since
No being can be thought tГўВҖВҷ exist apart
And independent of the first, a bar
Of equal force restrains from hating that.

ГўВҖВңGrant the distinction just; and it remains
TheГўВҖВҷ evil must be anotherГўВҖВҷs, which is lovГўВҖВҷd.
Three ways such love is genderГўВҖВҷd in your clay.
There is who hopes (his neighbourГўВҖВҷs worth deprest,)
Preeminence himself, and coverts hence
For his own greatness that another fall.
There is who so much fears the loss of power,
Fame, favour, glory (should his fellow mount
Above him), and so sickens at the thought,
He loves their opposite: and there is he,
Whom wrong or insult seems to gall and shame
That he doth thirst for vengeance, and such needs
Must doat on otherГўВҖВҷs evil. Here beneath
This threefold love is mournГўВҖВҷd. Of thГўВҖВҷ other sort
Be now instructed, that which follows good
But with disorderГўВҖВҷd and irregular course.

ГўВҖВңAll indistinctly apprehend a bliss
On which the soul may rest, the hearts of all
Yearn after it, and to that wished bourn
All therefore strive to tend. If ye behold
Or seek it with a love remiss and lax,
This cornice after just repenting lays
Its penal torment on ye. Other good
There is, where man finds not his happiness:
It is not true fruition, not that blest
Essence, of every good the branch and root.
The love too lavishly bestowГўВҖВҷd on this,
Along three circles over us, is mournГўВҖВҷd.
Account of that division tripartite
Expect not, fitter for thine own research.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XVIII


The teacher ended, and his high discourse
Concluding, earnest in my looks inquirГўВҖВҷd
If I appearГўВҖВҷd content; and I, whom still
Unsated thirst to hear him urgГўВҖВҷd, was mute,
Mute outwardly, yet inwardly I said:
ГўВҖВңPerchance my too much questioning offends.ГўВҖВқ
But he, true father, markГўВҖВҷd the secret wish
By diffidence restrainГўВҖВҷd, and speaking, gave
Me boldness thus to speak: ГўВҖВңMaster, my Sight
Gathers so lively virtue from thy beams,
That all, thy words convey, distinct is seen.
Wherefore I pray thee, father, whom this heart
Holds dearest! thou wouldst deign by proof tГўВҖВҷ unfold
That love, from which as from their source thou bringГўВҖВҷst
All good deeds and their opposite.ГўВҖВқ He then:
ГўВҖВңTo what I now disclose be thy clear ken
Directed, and thou plainly shalt behold
How much those blind have errГўВҖВҷd, who make themselves
The guides of men. The soul, created apt
To love, moves versatile which way soeГўВҖВҷer
Aught pleasing prompts her, soon as she is wakГўВҖВҷd
By pleasure into act. Of substance true
Your apprehension forms its counterfeit,
And in you the ideal shape presenting
Attracts the soulГўВҖВҷs regard. If she, thus drawn,
incline toward it, love is that inclining,
And a new nature knit by pleasure in ye.
Then as the fire points up, and mounting seeks
His birth-place and his lasting seat, eГўВҖВҷen thus
Enters the captive soul into desire,
Which is a spiritual motion, that neГўВҖВҷer rests
Before enjoyment of the thing it loves.
Enough to show thee, how the truth from those
Is hidden, who aver all love a thing
Praise-worthy in itself: although perhaps
Its substance seem still good. Yet if the wax
Be good, it follows not thГўВҖВҷ impression must.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңWhat love is,ГўВҖВқ I returnГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңthy words, O guide!
And my own docile mind, reveal. Yet thence
New doubts have sprung. For from without if love
Be offerГўВҖВҷd to us, and the spirit knows
No other footing, tend she right or wrong,
Is no desert of hers.ГўВҖВқ He answering thus:
ГўВҖВңWhat reason here discovers I have power
To show thee: that which lies beyond, expect
From Beatrice, faith not reasonГўВҖВҷs task.
Spirit, substantial form, with matter joinГўВҖВҷd
Not in confusion mixГўВҖВҷd, hath in itself
Specific virtue of that union born,
Which is not felt except it work, nor provГўВҖВҷd
But through effect, as vegetable life
By the green leaf. From whence his intellect
Deduced its primal notices of things,
Man therefore knows not, or his appetites
Their first affections; such in you, as zeal
In bees to gather honey; at the first,
Volition, meriting nor blame nor praise.
But oГўВҖВҷer each lower faculty supreme,
That as she list are summonГўВҖВҷd to her bar,
Ye have that virtue in you, whose just voice
Uttereth counsel, and whose word should keep
The threshold of assent. Here is the source,
Whence cause of merit in you is derivГўВҖВҷd,
EГўВҖВҷen as the affections good or ill she takes,
Or severs, winnowГўВҖВҷd as the chaff. Those men
Who reasГўВҖВҷning went to depth profoundest, markГўВҖВҷd
That innate freedom, and were thence inducГўВҖВҷd
To leave their moral teaching to the world.
Grant then, that from necessity arise
All love that glows within you; to dismiss
Or harbour it, the powГўВҖВҷr is in yourselves.
Remember, Beatrice, in her style,
Denominates free choice by eminence
The noble virtue, if in talk with thee
She touch upon that theme.ГўВҖВқ The moon, well nigh
To midnight hour belated, made the stars
Appear to wink and fade; and her broad disk
SeemГўВҖВҷd like a crag on fire, as up the vault
That course she journeyГўВҖВҷd, which the sun then warms,
When they of Rome behold him at his set.
Betwixt Sardinia and the Corsic isle.
And now the weight, that hung upon my thought,
Was lightenГўВҖВҷd by the aid of that clear spirit,
Who raiseth Andes above MantuaГўВҖВҷs name.
I therefore, when my questions had obtainГўВҖВҷd
Solution plain and ample, stood as one
Musing in dreary slumber; but not long
SlumberГўВҖВҷd; for suddenly a multitude,

The steep already turning, from behind,
RushГўВҖВҷd on. With fury and like random rout,
As echoing on their shores at midnight heard
Ismenus and Asopus, for his Thebes
If BacchusГўВҖВҷ help were needed; so came these
Tumultuous, curving each his rapid step,
By eagerness impellГўВҖВҷd of holy love.

Soon they oГўВҖВҷertook us; with such swiftness movГўВҖВҷd
The mighty crowd. Two spirits at their head
Cried weeping; ГўВҖВңBlessed Mary sought with haste
The hilly region. Caesar to subdue
Ilerda, darted in Marseilles his sting,
And flew to Spain.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңOh tarry not: away;ГўВҖВқ
The others shouted; ГўВҖВңlet not time be lost
Through slackness of affection. Hearty zeal
To serve reanimates celestial grace.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO ye, in whom intenser fervency
Haply supplies, where lukewarm erst ye failГўВҖВҷd,
Slow or neglectful, to absolve your part
Of good and virtuous, this man, who yet lives,
(Credit my tale, though strange) desires tГўВҖВҷ ascend,
So morning rise to light us. Therefore say
Which hand leads nearest to the rifted rock?ГўВҖВқ

So spake my guide, to whom a shade returnГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңCome after us, and thou shalt find the cleft.
We may not linger: such resistless will
Speeds our unwearied course. Vouchsafe us then
Thy pardon, if our duty seem to thee
Discourteous rudeness. In Verona I
Was abbot of San Zeno, when the hand
Of Barbarossa graspГўВҖВҷd Imperial sway,
That name, neГўВҖВҷer utterГўВҖВҷd without tears in Milan.
And there is he, hath one foot in his grave,
Who for that monastery ere long shall weep,
Ruing his power misusГўВҖВҷd: for that his son,
Of body ill compact, and worse in mind,
And born in evil, he hath set in place
Of its true pastor.ГўВҖВқ Whether more he spake,
Or here was mute, I know not: he had sped
EГўВҖВҷen now so far beyond us. Yet thus much
I heard, and in remembГўВҖВҷrance treasurГўВҖВҷd it.

He then, who never failГўВҖВҷd me at my need,
Cried, ГўВҖВңHither turn. Lo! two with sharp remorse
Chiding their sin!ГўВҖВқ In rear of all the troop
These shouted: ГўВҖВңFirst they died, to whom the sea
OpenГўВҖВҷd, or ever Jordan saw his heirs:
And they, who with Aeneas to the end
EndurГўВҖВҷd not suffering, for their portion chose
Life without glory.ГўВҖВқ Soon as they had fled
Past reach of sight, new thought within me rose
By others followГўВҖВҷd fast, and each unlike
Its fellow: till led on from thought to thought,
And pleasurГўВҖВҷd with the fleeting train, mine eye
Was closГўВҖВҷd, and meditation changГўВҖВҷd to dream.




CANTO XIX


It was the hour, when of diurnal heat
No reliques chafe the cold beams of the moon,
OГўВҖВҷerpowerГўВҖВҷd by earth, or planetary sway
Of Saturn; and the geomancer sees
His Greater Fortune up the east ascend,
Where gray dawn checkers first the shadowy cone;
When ГўВҖВҷfore me in my dream a womanГўВҖВҷs shape
There came, with lips that stammerГўВҖВҷd, eyes aslant,
Distorted feet, hands maimГўВҖВҷd, and colour pale.

I lookГўВҖВҷd upon her; and as sunshine cheers
Limbs numbГўВҖВҷd by nightly cold, eГўВҖВҷen thus my look
UnloosГўВҖВҷd her tongue, next in brief space her form
Decrepit raisГўВҖВҷd erect, and faded face
With loveГўВҖВҷs own hue illumГўВҖВҷd. RecovГўВҖВҷring speech
She forthwith warbling such a strain began,
That I, how loth soeГўВҖВҷer, could scarce have held
Attention from the song. ГўВҖВңI,ГўВҖВқ thus she sang,
ГўВҖВңI am the Siren, she, whom mariners
On the wide sea are wilderГўВҖВҷd when they hear:
Such fulness of delight the listГўВҖВҷner feels.
I from his course Ulysses by my lay
Enchanted drew. WhoeГўВҖВҷer frequents me once
Parts seldom; so I charm him, and his heart
Contented knows no void.ГўВҖВқ Or ere her mouth
Was closГўВҖВҷd, to shame her at her side appearГўВҖВҷd
A dame of semblance holy. With stern voice
She utterГўВҖВҷd; ГўВҖВңSay, O Virgil, who is this?ГўВҖВқ
Which hearing, he approachГўВҖВҷd, with eyes still bent
Toward that goodly presence: thГўВҖВҷ other seizГўВҖВҷd her,
And, her robes tearing, openГўВҖВҷd her before,
And showГўВҖВҷd the belly to me, whence a smell,
Exhaling loathsome, wakГўВҖВҷd me. Round I turnГўВҖВҷd
Mine eyes, and thus the teacher: ГўВҖВңAt the least
Three times my voice hath callГўВҖВҷd thee. Rise, begone.
Let us the opening find where thou mayst pass.ГўВҖВқ

I straightway rose. Now day, pourГўВҖВҷd down from high,
FillГўВҖВҷd all the circuits of the sacred mount;
And, as we journeyГўВҖВҷd, on our shoulder smote
The early ray. I followГўВҖВҷd, stooping low
My forehead, as a man, oГўВҖВҷerchargГўВҖВҷd with thought,
Who bends him to the likeness of an arch,
That midway spans the flood; when thus I heard,
ГўВҖВңCome, enter here,ГўВҖВқ in tone so soft and mild,
As never met the ear on mortal strand.

With swan-like wings dispread and pointing up,
Who thus had spoken marshalГўВҖВҷd us along,
Where each side of the solid masonry
The sloping, walls retirГўВҖВҷd; then movГўВҖВҷd his plumes,
And fanning us, affirmГўВҖВҷd that those, who mourn,
Are blessed, for that comfort shall be theirs.

ГўВҖВңWhat aileth thee, that still thou lookГўВҖВҷst to earth?ГўВҖВқ
Began my leader; while thГўВҖВҷ angelic shape
A little over us his station took.

ГўВҖВңNew vision,ГўВҖВқ I replied, ГўВҖВңhath raisГўВҖВҷd in me
Surmizings strange and anxious doubts, whereon
My soul intent allows no other thought
Or room or entrance.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңHast thou seen,ГўВҖВқ said he,
ГўВҖВңThat old enchantress, her, whose wiles alone
The spirits oГўВҖВҷer us weep for? Hast thou seen
How man may free him of her bonds? Enough.
Let thy heels spurn the earth, and thy raisГўВҖВҷd ken
Fix on the lure, which heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs eternal King
Whirls in the rolling spheres.ГўВҖВқ As on his feet
The falcon first looks down, then to the sky
Turns, and forth stretches eager for the food,
That woos him thither; so the call I heard,
So onward, far as the dividing rock
Gave way, I journeyГўВҖВҷd, till the plain was reachГўВҖВҷd.

On the fifth circle when I stood at large,
A race appearГўВҖВҷd before me, on the ground
All downward lying prone and weeping sore.
ГўВҖВңMy soul hath cleaved to the dust,ГўВҖВқ I heard
With sighs so deep, they well nigh choakГўВҖВҷd the words.
ГўВҖВңO ye elect of God, whose penal woes
Both hope and justice mitigate, direct
TowГўВҖВҷrds the steep rising our uncertain way.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf ye approach secure from this our doom,
ProstrationГўВҖВ”and would urge your course with speed,
See that ye still to rightward keep the brink.ГўВҖВқ

So them the bard besought; and such the words,
Beyond us some short space, in answer came.

I noted what remainГўВҖВҷd yet hidden from them:
Thence to my liegeГўВҖВҷs eyes mine eyes I bent,
And he, forthwith interpreting their suit,
BeckonГўВҖВҷd his glad assent. Free then to act,
As pleasГўВҖВҷd me, I drew near, and took my stand
O`er that shade, whose words I late had markГўВҖВҷd.
And, ГўВҖВңSpirit!ГўВҖВқ I said, ГўВҖВңin whom repentant tears
Mature that blessed hour, when thou with God
Shalt find acceptance, for a while suspend
For me that mightier care. Say who thou wast,
Why thus ye grovel on your bellies prone,
And if in aught ye wish my service there,
Whence living I am come.ГўВҖВқ He answering spake
ГўВҖВңThe cause why HeavГўВҖВҷn our back toward his cope
Reverses, shalt thou know: but me know first
The successor of Peter, and the name
And title of my lineage from that stream,
ThatГўВҖВҷ twixt Chiaveri and Siestri draws
His limpid waters through the lowly glen.
A month and little more by proof I learnt,
With what a weight that robe of sovГўВҖВҷreignty
Upon his shoulder rests, who from the mire
Would guard it: that each other fardel seems
But feathers in the balance. Late, alas!
Was my conversion: but when I became
RomeГўВҖВҷs pastor, I discernГўВҖВҷd at once the dream
And cozenage of life, saw that the heart
Rested not there, and yet no prouder height
LurГўВҖВҷd on the climber: wherefore, of that life
No more enamourГўВҖВҷd, in my bosom love
Of purer being kindled. For till then
I was a soul in misery, alienate
From God, and covetous of all earthly things;
Now, as thou seest, here punishГўВҖВҷd for my doting.
Such cleansing from the taint of avarice
Do spirits converted need. This mount inflicts
No direr penalty. EГўВҖВҷen as our eyes
FastenГўВҖВҷd below, nor eГўВҖВҷer to loftier clime
Were lifted, thus hath justice levelГўВҖВҷd us
Here on the earth. As avarice quenchГўВҖВҷd our love
Of good, without which is no working, thus
Here justice holds us prisonГўВҖВҷd, hand and foot
ChainГўВҖВҷd down and bound, while heavenГўВҖВҷs just Lord shall please.
So long to tarry motionless outstretchГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

My knees I stoopГўВҖВҷd, and would have spoke; but he,
Ere my beginning, by his ear perceivГўВҖВҷd
I did him reverence; and ГўВҖВңWhat cause,ГўВҖВқ said he,
ГўВҖВңHath bowГўВҖВҷd thee thus!ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңCompunction,ГўВҖВқ I rejoinГўВҖВҷd.
ГўВҖВңAnd inward awe of your high dignity.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңUp,ГўВҖВқ he exclaimГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңbrother! upon thy feet
Arise: err not: thy fellow servant I,
(Thine and all othersГўВҖВҷ) of one Sovran Power.
If thou hast ever markГўВҖВҷd those holy sounds
Of gospel truth, ГўВҖВҳnor shall be given ill marriage,ГўВҖВҷ
Thou mayst discern the reasons of my speech.
Go thy ways now; and linger here no more.
Thy tarrying is a let unto the tears,
With which I hasten that whereof thou spakГўВҖВҷst.
I have on earth a kinswoman; her name
Alagia, worthy in herself, so ill
Example of our house corrupt her not:
And she is all remaineth of me there.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XX


Ill strives the will, ГўВҖВҷgainst will more wise that strives
His pleasure therefore to mine own preferrГўВҖВҷd,
I drew the sponge yet thirsty from the wave.

Onward I movГўВҖВҷd: he also onward movГўВҖВҷd,
Who led me, coasting still, wherever place
Along the rock was vacant, as a man
Walks near the battlements on narrow wall.
For those on thГўВҖВҷ other part, who drop by drop
Wring out their all-infecting malady,
Too closely press the verge. Accurst be thou!
Inveterate wolf! whose gorge ingluts more prey,
Than every beast beside, yet is not fillГўВҖВҷd!
So bottomless thy maw!ГўВҖВ”Ye spheres of heaven!
To whom there are, as seems, who attribute
All change in mortal state, when is the day
Of his appearing, for whom fate reserves
To chase her hence? ГўВҖВ”With wary steps and slow
We passГўВҖВҷd; and I attentive to the shades,
Whom piteously I heard lament and wail;

And, ГўВҖВҷmidst the wailing, one before us heard
Cry out ГўВҖВңO blessed Virgin!ГўВҖВқ as a dame
In the sharp pangs of childbed; and ГўВҖВңHow poor
Thou wast,ГўВҖВқ it added, ГўВҖВңwitness that low roof
Where thou didst lay thy sacred burden down.
O good Fabricius! thou didst virtue choose
With poverty, before great wealth with vice.ГўВҖВқ

The words so pleasГўВҖВҷd me, that desire to know
The spirit, from whose lip they seemГўВҖВҷd to come,
Did draw me onward. Yet it spake the gift
Of Nicholas, which on the maidens he
Bounteous bestowГўВҖВҷd, to save their youthful prime
UnblemishГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңSpirit! who dost speak of deeds
So worthy, tell me who thou was,ГўВҖВқ I said,
ГўВҖВңAnd why thou dost with single voice renew
Memorial of such praise. That boon vouchsafГўВҖВҷd
Haply shall meet reward; if I return
To finish the Short pilgrimage of life,
Still speeding to its close on restless wing.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI,ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd he, ГўВҖВңwill tell thee, not for hell,
Which thence I look for; but that in thyself
Grace so exceeding shines, before thy time
Of mortal dissolution. I was root
Of that ill plant, whose shade such poison sheds
OГўВҖВҷer all the Christian land, that seldom thence
Good fruit is gatherГўВҖВҷd. Vengeance soon should come,
Had Ghent and Douay, Lille and Bruges power;
And vengeance I of heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs great Judge implore.
Hugh Capet was I high: from me descend
The Philips and the Louis, of whom France
Newly is governГўВҖВҷd; born of one, who plyГўВҖВҷd
The slaughtererГўВҖВҷs trade at Paris. When the race
Of ancient kings had vanishГўВҖВҷd (all save one
Wrapt up in sable weeds) within my gripe
I found the reins of empire, and such powers
Of new acquirement, with full store of friends,
That soon the widowГўВҖВҷd circlet of the crown
Was girt upon the temples of my son,
He, from whose bones thГўВҖВҷ anointed race begins.
Till the great dower of Provence had removГўВҖВҷd
The stains, that yet obscurГўВҖВҷd our lowly blood,
Its sway indeed was narrow, but howeГўВҖВҷer
It wrought no evil: there, with force and lies,
Began its rapine; after, for amends,
Poitou it seizГўВҖВҷd, Navarre and Gascony.
To Italy came Charles, and for amends
Young Conradine an innocent victim slew,
And sent thГўВҖВҷ angelic teacher back to heavГўВҖВҷn,
Still for amends. I see the time at hand,
That forth from France invites another Charles
To make himself and kindred better known.
UnarmГўВҖВҷd he issues, saving with that lance,
Which the arch-traitor tilted with; and that
He carries with so home a thrust, as rives
The bowels of poor Florence. No increase
Of territory hence, but sin and shame
Shall be his guerdon, and so much the more
As he more lightly deems of such foul wrong.
I see the other, who a prisoner late
Had steps on shore, exposing to the mart
His daughter, whom he bargains for, as do
The Corsairs for their slaves. O avarice!
What canst thou more, who hast subdued our blood
So wholly to thyself, they feel no care
Of their own flesh? To hide with direr guilt
Past ill and future, lo! the flower-de-luce
Enters Alagna! in his Vicar Christ
Himself a captive, and his mockery
Acted again! Lo! lo his holy lip
The vinegar and gall once more applied!
And he ГўВҖВҷtwixt living robbers doomГўВҖВҷd to bleed!
Lo! the new Pilate, of whose cruelty
Such violence cannot fill the measure up,
With no degree to sanction, pushes on
Into the temple his yet eager sails!

ГўВҖВңO sovran Master! when shall I rejoice
To see the vengeance, which thy wrath well-pleasГўВҖВҷd
In secret silence broods?ГўВҖВ”While daylight lasts,
So long what thou didst hear of her, sole spouse
Of the Great Spirit, and on which thou turnГўВҖВҷdst
To me for comment, is the general theme
Of all our prayers: but when it darkens, then
A different strain we utter, then record
Pygmalion, whom his gluttonous thirst of gold
Made traitor, robber, parricide: the woes
Of Midas, which his greedy wish ensued,
MarkГўВҖВҷd for derision to all future times:
And the fond Achan, how he stole the prey,
That yet he seems by JoshuaГўВҖВҷs ire pursued.
Sapphira with her husband next, we blame;
And praise the forefeet, that with furious ramp
SpurnГўВҖВҷd Heliodorus. All the mountain round
Rings with the infamy of ThraciaГўВҖВҷs king,
Who slew his Phrygian charge: and last a shout
Ascends: ГўВҖВңDeclare, O Crassus! for thou knowГўВҖВҷst,
The flavour of thy gold.ГўВҖВқ The voice of each
Now high now low, as each his impulse prompts,
Is led through many a pitch, acute or grave.
Therefore, not singly, I erewhile rehearsГўВҖВҷd
That blessedness we tell of in the day:
But near me none beside his accent raisГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

From him we now had parted, and essayГўВҖВҷd
With utmost efforts to surmount the way,
When I did feel, as nodding to its fall,
The mountain tremble; whence an icy chill
SeizГўВҖВҷd on me, as on one to death conveyГўВҖВҷd.
So shook not Delos, when Latona there
CouchГўВҖВҷd to bring forth the twin-born eyes of heaven.

Forthwith from every side a shout arose
So vehement, that suddenly my guide
Drew near, and cried: ГўВҖВңDoubt not, while I conduct thee.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңGlory!ГўВҖВқ all shouted (such the sounds mine ear
GatherГўВҖВҷd from those, who near me swellГўВҖВҷd the sounds)
ГўВҖВңGlory in the highest be to God.ГўВҖВқ We stood
Immovably suspended, like to those,
The shepherds, who first heard in BethlehemГўВҖВҷs field
That song: till ceasГўВҖВҷd the trembling, and the song
Was ended: then our hallowГўВҖВҷd path resumГўВҖВҷd,
Eying the prostrate shadows, who renewГўВҖВҷd
Their customГўВҖВҷd mourning. Never in my breast
Did ignorance so struggle with desire
Of knowledge, if my memory do not err,
As in that moment; nor through haste darГўВҖВҷd I
To question, nor myself could aught discern,
So on I farГўВҖВҷd in thoughtfulness and dread.




CANTO XXI


The natural thirst, neГўВҖВҷer quenchГўВҖВҷd but from the well,
Whereof the woman of Samaria cravГўВҖВҷd,
Excited: haste along the cumberГўВҖВҷd path,
After my guide, impellГўВҖВҷd; and pity movГўВҖВҷd
My bosom for the ГўВҖВҷvengeful deed, though just.
When lo! even as Luke relates, that Christ
AppearГўВҖВҷd unto the two upon their way,
New-risen from his vaulted grave; to us
A shade appearГўВҖВҷd, and after us approachГўВҖВҷd,
Contemplating the crowd beneath its feet.
We were not ware of it; so first it spake,
Saying, ГўВҖВңGod give you peace, my brethren!ГўВҖВқ then
Sudden we turnГўВҖВҷd: and Virgil such salute,
As fitted that kind greeting, gave, and cried:
ГўВҖВңPeace in the blessed council be thy lot
Awarded by that righteous court, which me
To everlasting banishment exiles!ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow!ГўВҖВқ he exclaimГўВҖВҷd, nor from his speed meanwhile
Desisting, ГўВҖВңIf that ye be spirits, whom God
Vouchsafes not room above, who up the height
Has been thus far your guide?ГўВҖВқ To whom the bard:
ГўВҖВңIf thou observe the tokens, which this man
TracГўВҖВҷd by the finger of the angel bears,
ГўВҖВҷTis plain that in the kingdom of the just
He needs must share. But sithence she, whose wheel
Spins day and night, for him not yet had drawn
That yarn, which, on the fatal distaff pilГўВҖВҷd,
Clotho apportions to each wight that breathes,
His soul, that sister is to mine and thine,
Not of herself could mount, for not like ours
Her ken: whence I, from forth the ample gulf
Of hell was taГўВҖВҷen, to lead him, and will lead
Far as my lore avails. But, if thou know,
Instruct us for what cause, the mount erewhile
Thus shook and trembled: wherefore all at once
SeemГўВҖВҷd shouting, even from his wave-washГўВҖВҷd foot.ГўВҖВқ

That questioning so tallied with my wish,
The thirst did feel abatement of its edge
EГўВҖВҷen from expectance. He forthwith replied,
ГўВҖВңIn its devotion nought irregular
This mount can witness, or by punctual rule
UnsanctionГўВҖВҷd; here from every change exempt.
Other than that, which heaven in itself
Doth of itself receive, no influence
Can reach us. Tempest none, shower, hail or snow,
Hoar frost or dewy moistness, higher falls
Than that brief scale of threefold steps: thick clouds
Nor scudding rack are ever seen: swift glance
NeГўВҖВҷer lightens, nor Thaumantian Iris gleams,
That yonder often shift on each side heavГўВҖВҷn.
Vapour adust doth never mount above
The highest of the trinal stairs, whereon
PeterГўВҖВҷs vicegerent stands. Lower perchance,
With various motion rockГўВҖВҷd, trembles the soil:
But here, through wind in earthГўВҖВҷs deep hollow pent,
I know not how, yet never trembled: then
Trembles, when any spirit feels itself
So purified, that it may rise, or move
For rising, and such loud acclaim ensues.
Purification by the will alone
Is provГўВҖВҷd, that free to change society
Seizes the soul rejoicing in her will.
Desire of bliss is present from the first;
But strong propension hinders, to that wish
By the just ordinance of heavГўВҖВҷn opposГўВҖВҷd;
Propension now as eager to fulfil
ThГўВҖВҷ allotted torment, as erewhile to sin.
And I who in this punishment had lain
Five hundred years and more, but now have felt
Free wish for happier clime. Therefore thou feltГўВҖВҷst
The mountain tremble, and the spirits devout
HeardГўВҖВҷst, over all his limits, utter praise
To that liege Lord, whom I entreat their joy
To hasten.ГўВҖВқ Thus he spake: and since the draught
Is grateful ever as the thirst is keen,
No words may speak my fullness of content.

ГўВҖВңNow,ГўВҖВқ said the instructor sage, ГўВҖВңI see the net
That takes ye here, and how the toils are loosГўВҖВҷd,
Why rocks the mountain and why ye rejoice.
Vouchsafe, that from thy lips I next may learn,
Who on the earth thou wast, and wherefore here
So many an age wert prostrate.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңIn that time,
When the good Titus, with HeavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs King to help,
AvengГўВҖВҷd those piteous gashes, whence the blood
By Judas sold did issue, with the name
Most lasting and most honourГўВҖВҷd there was I
Abundantly renownГўВҖВҷd,ГўВҖВқ the shade replyГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңNot yet with faith endued. So passing sweet
My vocal Spirit, from Tolosa, Rome
To herself drew me, where I merited
A myrtle garland to inwreathe my brow.
Statius they name me still. Of Thebes I sang,
And next of great Achilles: but iГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ way
Fell with the second burthen. Of my flame
Those sparkles were the seeds, which I derivГўВҖВҷd
From the bright fountain of celestial fire
That feeds unnumberГўВҖВҷd lamps, the song I mean
Which sounds AeneasГўВҖВҷ wandГўВҖВҷrings: that the breast
I hung at, that the nurse, from whom my veins
Drank inspiration: whose authority
Was ever sacred with me. To have livГўВҖВҷd
Coeval with the Mantuan, I would bide
The revolution of another sun
Beyond my stated years in banishment.ГўВҖВқ

The Mantuan, when he heard him, turnГўВҖВҷd to me,
And holding silence: by his countenance
EnjoinГўВҖВҷd me silence but the power which wills,
Bears not supreme control: laughter and tears
Follow so closely on the passion prompts them,
They wait not for the motions of the will
In natures most sincere. I did but smile,
As one who winks; and thereupon the shade
Broke off, and peerГўВҖВҷd into mine eyes, where best
Our looks interpret. ГўВҖВңSo to good event
Mayst thou conduct such great emprize,ГўВҖВқ he cried,
ГўВҖВңSay, why across thy visage beamГўВҖВҷd, but now,
The lightning of a smile!ГўВҖВқ On either part
Now am I straitenГўВҖВҷd; one conjures me speak,
ThГўВҖВҷ other to silence binds me: whence a sigh
I utter, and the sigh is heard. ГўВҖВңSpeak on;ГўВҖВқ
The teacher cried; ГўВҖВңand do not fear to speak,
But tell him what so earnestly he asks.ГўВҖВқ
Whereon I thus: ГўВҖВңPerchance, O ancient spirit!
Thou marvelГўВҖВҷst at my smiling. There is room
For yet more wonder. He who guides my ken
On high, he is that Mantuan, led by whom
Thou didst presume of men and gods to sing.
If other cause thou deemГўВҖВҷdst for which I smilГўВҖВҷd,
Leave it as not the true one; and believe
Those words, thou spakГўВҖВҷst of him, indeed the cause.ГўВҖВқ

Now down he bent tГўВҖВҷ embrace my teacherГўВҖВҷs feet;
But he forbade him: ГўВҖВңBrother! do it not:
Thou art a shadow, and beholdГўВҖВҷst a shade.ГўВҖВқ
He rising answerГўВҖВҷd thus: ГўВҖВңNow hast thou provГўВҖВҷd
The force and ardour of the love I bear thee,
When I forget we are but things of air,
And as a substance treat an empty shade.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXII


Now we had left the angel, who had turnГўВҖВҷd
To the sixth circle our ascending step,
One gash from off my forehead razГўВҖВҷd: while they,
Whose wishes tend to justice, shouted forth:
ГўВҖВңBlessed!ГўВҖВқ and ended with, ГўВҖВңI thirst:ГўВҖВқ and I,
More nimble than along the other straits,
So journeyГўВҖВҷd, that, without the sense of toil,
I followГўВҖВҷd upward the swift-footed shades;
When Virgil thus began: ГўВҖВңLet its pure flame
From virtue flow, and love can never fail
To warm anotherГўВҖВҷs bosomГўВҖВҷ so the light
Shine manifestly forth. Hence from that hour,
When ГўВҖВҷmongst us in the purlieus of the deep,
Came down the spirit of AquinumГўВҖВҷs hard,
Who told of thine affection, my good will
Hath been for thee of quality as strong
As ever linkГўВҖВҷd itself to one not seen.
Therefore these stairs will now seem short to me.
But tell me: and if too secure I loose
The rein with a friendГўВҖВҷs license, as a friend
Forgive me, and speak now as with a friend:
How chancГўВҖВҷd it covetous desire could find
Place in that bosom, ГўВҖВҷmidst such ample store
Of wisdom, as thy zeal had treasurГўВҖВҷd there?ГўВҖВқ

First somewhat movГўВҖВҷd to laughter by his words,
Statius replied: ГўВҖВңEach syllable of thine
Is a dear pledge of love. Things oft appear
That minister false matters to our doubts,
When their true causes are removГўВҖВҷd from sight.
Thy question doth assure me, thou believГўВҖВҷst
I was on earth a covetous man, perhaps
Because thou foundГўВҖВҷst me in that circle placГўВҖВҷd.
Know then I was too wide of avarice:
And eГўВҖВҷen for that excess, thousands of moons
Have waxГўВҖВҷd and wanГўВҖВҷd upon my sufferings.
And were it not that I with heedful care
Noted where thou exclaimГўВҖВҷst as if in ire
With human nature, ГўВҖВҳWhy, thou cursed thirst
Of gold! dost not with juster measure guide
The appetite of mortals?ГўВҖВҷ I had met
The fierce encounter of the voluble rock.
Then was I ware that with too ample wing
The hands may haste to lavishment, and turnГўВҖВҷd,
As from my other evil, so from this
In penitence. How many from their grave
Shall with shorn locks arise, who living, aye
And at lifeГўВҖВҷs last extreme, of this offence,
Through ignorance, did not repent. And know,
The fault which lies direct from any sin
In level opposition, here With that
Wastes its green rankness on one common heap.
Therefore if I have been with those, who wail
Their avarice, to cleanse me, through reverse
Of their transgression, such hath been my lot.ГўВҖВқ

To whom the sovran of the pastoral song:
ГўВҖВңWhile thou didst sing that cruel warfare wagГўВҖВҷd
By the twin sorrow of JocastaГўВҖВҷs womb,
From thy discourse with Clio there, it seems
As faith had not been shine: without the which
Good deeds suffice not. And if so, what sun
Rose on thee, or what candle piercГўВҖВҷd the dark
That thou didst after see to hoist the sail,
And follow, where the fisherman had led?ГўВҖВқ

He answering thus: ГўВҖВңBy thee conducted first,
I enterГўВҖВҷd the Parnassian grots, and quaffГўВҖВҷd
Of the clear spring; illuminГўВҖВҷd first by thee
OpenГўВҖВҷd mine eyes to God. Thou didst, as one,
Who, journeying through the darkness, hears a light
Behind, that profits not himself, but makes
His followers wise, when thou exclaimedst, ГўВҖВҳLo!
A renovated world! Justice returnГўВҖВҷd!
Times of primeval innocence restorГўВҖВҷd!
And a new race descended from above!ГўВҖВҷ
Poet and Christian both to thee I owed.
That thou mayst mark more clearly what I trace,
My hand shall stretch forth to inform the lines
With livelier colouring. Soon oГўВҖВҷer all the world,
By messengers from heavГўВҖВҷn, the true belief
TeemГўВҖВҷd now prolific, and that word of thine
Accordant, to the new instructors chimГўВҖВҷd.
InducГўВҖВҷd by which agreement, I was wont
Resort to them; and soon their sanctity
So won upon me, that, DomitianГўВҖВҷs rage
Pursuing them, I mixГўВҖВҷd my tears with theirs,
And, while on earth I stayГўВҖВҷd, still succourГўВҖВҷd them;
And their most righteous customs made me scorn
All sects besides. Before I led the Greeks
In tuneful fiction, to the streams of Thebes,
I was baptizГўВҖВҷd; but secretly, through fear,
RemainГўВҖВҷd a Christian, and conformГўВҖВҷd long time
To Pagan rites. Five centuries and more,
T for that lukewarmness was fain to pace
Round the fourth circle. Thou then, who hast raisГўВҖВҷd
The covering, which did hide such blessing from me,
Whilst much of this ascent is yet to climb,
Say, if thou know, where our old Terence bides,
Caecilius, Plautus, Varro: if condemnГўВҖВҷd
They dwell, and in what province of the deep.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңThese,ГўВҖВқ said my guide, ГўВҖВңwith Persius and myself,
And others many more, are with that Greek,
Of mortals, the most cherishГўВҖВҷd by the Nine,
In the first ward of darkness. There ofttimes
We of that mount hold converse, on whose top
For aye our nurses live. We have the bard
Of Pella, and the Teian, Agatho,
Simonides, and many a Grecian else
Ingarlanded with laurel. Of thy train
Antigone is there, Deiphile,
Argia, and as sorrowful as erst
Ismene, and who showГўВҖВҷd LangiaГўВҖВҷs wave:
Deidamia with her sisters there,
And blind TiresiasГўВҖВҷ daughter, and the bride
Sea-born of Peleus.ГўВҖВқ Either poet now
Was silent, and no longer by thГўВҖВҷ ascent
Or the steep walls obstructed, round them cast
Inquiring eyes. Four handmaids of the day
Had finishГўВҖВҷd now their office, and the fifth
Was at the chariot-beam, directing still
Its balmy point aloof, when thus my guide:
ГўВҖВңMethinks, it well behooves us to the brink
Bend the right shoulderГўВҖВҷ circuiting the mount,
As we have ever usГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ So custom there
Was usher to the road, the which we chose
Less doubtful, as that worthy shade complied.

They on before me went; I sole pursued,
ListГўВҖВҷning their speech, that to my thoughts conveyГўВҖВҷd
Mysterious lessons of sweet poesy.
But soon they ceasГўВҖВҷd; for midway of the road
A tree we found, with goodly fruitage hung,
And pleasant to the smell: and as a fir
Upward from bough to bough less ample spreads,
So downward this less ample spread, that none.
Methinks, aloft may climb. Upon the side,
That closГўВҖВҷd our path, a liquid crystal fell
From the steep rock, and through the sprays above
StreamГўВҖВҷd showering. With associate step the bards
Drew near the plant; and from amidst the leaves
A voice was heard: ГўВҖВңYe shall be chary of me;ГўВҖВқ
And after added: ГўВҖВңMary took more thought
For joy and honour of the nuptial feast,
Than for herself who answers now for you.
The women of old Rome were satisfied
With water for their beverage. Daniel fed
On pulse, and wisdom gainГўВҖВҷd. The primal age
Was beautiful as gold; and hunger then
Made acorns tasteful, thirst each rivulet
Run nectar. Honey and locusts were the food,
Whereon the Baptist in the wilderness
Fed, and that eminence of glory reachГўВҖВҷd
And greatness, which theГўВҖВҷ Evangelist records.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXIII


On the green leaf mine eyes were fixГўВҖВҷd, like his
Who throws away his days in idle chase
Of the diminutive, when thus I heard
The more than father warn me: ГўВҖВңSon! our time
Asks thriftier using. Linger not: away.ГўВҖВқ

Thereat my face and steps at once I turnГўВҖВҷd
Toward the sages, by whose converse cheerГўВҖВҷd
I journeyГўВҖВҷd on, and felt no toil: and lo!
A sound of weeping and a song: ГўВҖВңMy lips,
O Lord!ГўВҖВқ and these so mingled, it gave birth
To pleasure and to pain. ГўВҖВңO Sire, belovГўВҖВҷd!
Say what is this I hear?ГўВҖВқ Thus I inquirГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңSpirits,ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңwho as they go, perchance,
Their debt of duty pay.ГўВҖВқ As on their road
The thoughtful pilgrims, overtaking some
Not known unto them, turn to them, and look,
But stay not; thus, approaching from behind
With speedier motion, eyed us, as they passГўВҖВҷd,
A crowd of spirits, silent and devout.
The eyes of each were dark and hollow: pale
Their visage, and so lean withal, the bones
Stood staring throГўВҖВҷ the skin. I do not think
Thus dry and meagre Erisicthon showГўВҖВҷd,
When pincГўВҖВҷed by sharp-set famine to the quick.

ГўВҖВңLo!ГўВҖВқ to myself I musГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңthe race, who lost
Jerusalem, when Mary with dire beak
PreyГўВҖВҷd on her child.ГўВҖВқ The sockets seemГўВҖВҷd as rings,
From which the gems were drops. Who reads the name
Of man upon his forehead, there the M
Had tracГўВҖВҷd most plainly. Who would deem, that scent
Of water and an apple, could have provГўВҖВҷd
Powerful to generate such pining want,
Not knowing how it wrought? While now I stood
WondГўВҖВҷring what thus could waste them (for the cause
Of their gaunt hollowness and scaly rind
AppearГўВҖВҷd not) lo! a spirit turnГўВҖВҷd his eyes
In their deep-sunken cell, and fastenГўВҖВҷd then
On me, then cried with vehemence aloud:
ГўВҖВңWhat grace is this vouchsafГўВҖВҷd me?ГўВҖВқ By his looks
I neГўВҖВҷer had recognizГўВҖВҷd him: but the voice
Brought to my knowledge what his cheer concealГўВҖВҷd.
Remembrance of his alterГўВҖВҷd lineaments
Was kindled from that spark; and I agnizГўВҖВҷd
The visage of Forese. ГўВҖВңAh! respect
This wan and leprous witherГўВҖВҷd skin,ГўВҖВқ thus he
Suppliant implorГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңthis macerated flesh.
Speak to me truly of thyself. And who
Are those twain spirits, that escort thee there?
Be it not said thou ScornГўВҖВҷst to talk with me.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat face of thine,ГўВҖВқ I answerГўВҖВҷd him, ГўВҖВңwhich dead
I once bewailГўВҖВҷd, disposes me not less
For weeping, when I see It thus transformГўВҖВҷd.
Say then, by HeavГўВҖВҷn, what blasts ye thus? The whilst
I wonder, ask not Speech from me: unapt
Is he to speak, whom other will employs.ГўВҖВқ

He thus: ГўВҖВңThe water and tee plant we passГўВҖВҷd,
Virtue possesses, by thГўВҖВҷ eternal will
InfusГўВҖВҷd, the which so pines me. Every spirit,
Whose song bewails his gluttony indulgГўВҖВҷd
Too grossly, here in hunger and in thirst
Is purified. The odour, which the fruit,
And spray, that showers upon the verdure, breathe,
Inflames us with desire to feed and drink.
Nor once alone encompassing our route
We come to add fresh fuel to the pain:
Pain, said I? solace rather: for that will
To the tree leads us, by which Christ was led
To call Elias, joyful when he paid
Our ransom from his vein.ГўВҖВқ I answering thus:
ГўВҖВңForese! from that day, in which the world
For better life thou changedst, not five years
Have circled. If the power of sinning more
Were first concluded in thee, ere thou knewГўВҖВҷst
That kindly grief, which re-espouses us
To God, how hither art thou come so soon?
I thought to find thee lower, there, where time
Is recompense for time.ГўВҖВқ He straight replied:
ГўВҖВңTo drink up the sweet wormwood of affliction
I have been brought thus early by the tears
StreamГўВҖВҷd down my NellaГўВҖВҷs cheeks. Her prayers devout,
Her sighs have drawn me from the coast, where oft
Expectance lingers, and have set me free
From thГўВҖВҷ other circles. In the sight of God
So much the dearer is my widow prizГўВҖВҷd,
She whom I lovГўВҖВҷd so fondly, as she ranks
More singly eminent for virtuous deeds.
The tract most barbГўВҖВҷrous of SardiniaГўВҖВҷs isle,
Hath dames more chaste and modester by far
Than that wherein I left her. O sweet brother!
What wouldst thou have me say? A time to come
Stands full within my view, to which this hour
Shall not be counted of an ancient date,
When from the pulpit shall be loudly warnГўВҖВҷd
ThГўВҖВҷ unblushing dames of Florence, lest they bare
UnkerchiefГўВҖВҷd bosoms to the common gaze.
What savage women hath the world eГўВҖВҷer seen,
What Saracens, for whom there needed scourge
Of spiritual or other discipline,
To force them walk with covГўВҖВҷring on their limbs!
But did they see, the shameless ones, that HeavГўВҖВҷn
Wafts on swift wing toward them, while I speak,
Their mouths were opГўВҖВҷd for howling: they shall taste
Of Borrow (unless foresight cheat me here)
Or ere the cheek of him be clothГўВҖВҷd with down
Who is now rockГўВҖВҷd with lullaby asleep.
Ah! now, my brother, hide thyself no more,
Thou seest how not I alone but all
Gaze, where thou veilГўВҖВҷst the intercepted sun.ГўВҖВқ

Whence I replied: ГўВҖВңIf thou recall to mind
What we were once together, even yet
Remembrance of those days may grieve thee sore.
That I forsook that life, was due to him
Who there precedes me, some few evenings past,
When she was round, who shines with sister lamp
To his, that glisters yonder,ГўВҖВқ and I showГўВҖВҷd
The sun. ГўВҖВңTis he, who through profoundest night
Of he true dead has brought me, with this flesh
As true, that follows. From that gloom the aid
Of his sure comfort drew me on to climb,
And climbing wind along this mountain-steep,
Which rectifies in you whateГўВҖВҷer the world
Made crooked and depravГўВҖВҷd I have his word,
That he will bear me company as far
As till I come where Beatrice dwells:
But there must leave me. Virgil is that spirit,
Who thus hath promisГўВҖВҷd,ГўВҖВқ and I pointed to him;
ГўВҖВңThe other is that shade, for whom so late
Your realm, as he arose, exulting shook
Through every pendent cliff and rocky bound.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXIV


Our journey was not slackenГўВҖВҷd by our talk,
Nor yet our talk by journeying. Still we spake,
And urgГўВҖВҷd our travel stoutly, like a ship
When the wind sits astern. The shadowy forms,

That seemГўВҖВҷd things dead and dead again, drew in
At their deep-delved orbs rare wonder of me,
Perceiving I had life; and I my words
Continued, and thus spake; ГўВҖВңHe journeys up
Perhaps more tardily then else he would,
For othersГўВҖВҷ sake. But tell me, if thou knowГўВҖВҷst,
Where is Piccarda? Tell me, if I see
Any of mark, among this multitude,
Who eye me thus.ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңMy sister (she for whom,
ГўВҖВҷTwixt beautiful and good I cannot say
Which name was fitter ) wears eГўВҖВҷen now her crown,
And triumphs in Olympus.ГўВҖВқ Saying this,
He added: ГўВҖВңSince spare diet hath so worn
Our semblance out, ГўВҖВҷt is lawful here to name
Each one. This,ГўВҖВқ and his finger then he raisГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңIs Buonaggiuna,ГўВҖВ”Buonaggiuna, he
Of Lucca: and that face beyond him, piercГўВҖВҷd
Unto a leaner fineness than the rest,
Had keeping of the church: he was of Tours,
And purges by wan abstinence away
BolsenaГўВҖВҷs eels and cups of muscadel.ГўВҖВқ

He showГўВҖВҷd me many others, one by one,
And all, as they were namГўВҖВҷd, seemГўВҖВҷd well content;
For no dark gesture I discernГўВҖВҷd in any.
I saw through hunger Ubaldino grind
His teeth on emptiness; and Boniface,
That wavГўВҖВҷd the crozier oГўВҖВҷer a numГўВҖВҷrous flock.
I saw the Marquis, who tad time erewhile
To swill at Forli with less drought, yet so
Was one neГўВҖВҷer sated. I howeГўВҖВҷer, like him,
That gazing ГўВҖВҷmidst a crowd, singles out one,
So singled him of Lucca; for methought
Was none amongst them took such note of me.
Somewhat I heard him whisper of Gentucca:
The sound was indistinct, and murmurГўВҖВҷd there,
Where justice, that so strips them, fixГўВҖВҷd her sting.

ГўВҖВңSpirit!ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңit seems as thou wouldst fain
Speak with me. Let me hear thee. Mutual wish
To converse prompts, which let us both indulge.ГўВҖВқ

He, answГўВҖВҷring, straight began: ГўВҖВңWoman is born,
Whose brow no wimple shades yet, that shall make
My city please thee, blame it as they may.
Go then with this forewarning. If aught false
My whisper too implied, thГўВҖВҷ event shall tell
But say, if of a truth I see the man
Of that new lay thГўВҖВҷ inventor, which begins
With ГўВҖВҳLadies, ye that con the lore of loveГўВҖВҷ.ГўВҖВқ

To whom I thus: ГўВҖВңCount of me but as one
Who am the scribe of love; that, when he breathes,
Take up my pen, and, as he dictates, write.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBrother!ГўВҖВқ said he, ГўВҖВңthe hindГўВҖВҷrance which once held
The notary with Guittone and myself,
Short of that new and sweeter style I hear,
Is now disclosГўВҖВҷd. I see how ye your plumes
Stretch, as thГўВҖВҷ inditer guides them; which, no question,
Ours did not. He that seeks a grace beyond,
Sees not the distance parts one style from other.ГўВҖВқ
And, as contented, here he held his peace.

Like as the bird, that winter near the Nile,
In squared regiment direct their course,
Then stretch themselves in file for speedier flight;
Thus all the tribe of spirits, as they turnГўВҖВҷd
Their visage, faster deaf, nimble alike
Through leanness and desire. And as a man,
TirГўВҖВҷd With the motion of a trotting steed,
Slacks pace, and stays behind his company,
Till his oГўВҖВҷerbreathed lungs keep temperate time;
EГўВҖВҷen so Forese let that holy crew
Proceed, behind them lingering at my side,
And saying: ГўВҖВңWhen shall I again behold thee?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHow long my life may last,ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңI know not;
This know, how soon soever I return,
My wishes will before me have arrivГўВҖВҷd.
Sithence the place, where I am set to live,
Is, day by day, more scoopГўВҖВҷd of all its good,
And dismal ruin seems to threaten it.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңGo now,ГўВҖВқ he cried: ГўВҖВңlo! he, whose guilt is most,
Passes before my vision, draggГўВҖВҷd at heels
Of an infuriate beast. Toward the vale,
Where guilt hath no redemption, on it speeds,
Each step increasing swiftness on the last;
Until a blow it strikes, that leaveth him
A corse most vilely shatterГўВҖВҷd. No long space
Those wheels have yet to rollГўВҖВқ (therewith his eyes
LookГўВҖВҷd up to heavГўВҖВҷn) ГўВҖВңere thou shalt plainly see
That which my words may not more plainly tell.
I quit thee: time is precious here: I lose
Too much, thus measuring my pace with shine.ГўВҖВқ

As from a troop of well-rankГўВҖВҷd chivalry
One knight, more enterprising than the rest,
Pricks forth at gallop, eager to display
His prowess in the first encounter provГўВҖВҷd
So parted he from us with lengthenГўВҖВҷd strides,
And left me on the way with those twain spirits,
Who were such mighty marshals of the world.

When he beyond us had so fled mine eyes
No nearer reachГўВҖВҷd him, than my thought his words,
The branches of another fruit, thick hung,
And blooming fresh, appearГўВҖВҷd. EГўВҖВҷen as our steps
TurnГўВҖВҷd thither, not far off it rose to view.
Beneath it were a multitude, that raisГўВҖВҷd
Their hands, and shouted forth I know not What
Unto the boughs; like greedy and fond brats,
That beg, and answer none obtain from him,
Of whom they beg; but more to draw them on,
He at armГўВҖВҷs length the object of their wish
Above them holds aloft, and hides it not.

At length, as undeceivГўВҖВҷd they went their way:
And we approach the tree, who vows and tears
Sue to in vain, the mighty tree. ГўВҖВңPass on,
And come not near. Stands higher up the wood,
Whereof Eve tasted, and from it was taГўВҖВҷen
ГўВҖВҳthis plant.ГўВҖВқ Such sounds from midst the thickets came.
Whence I, with either bard, close to the side
That rose, passГўВҖВҷd forth beyond. ГўВҖВңRemember,ГўВҖВқ next
We heard, ГўВҖВңthose noblest creatures of the clouds,
How they their twofold bosoms overgorgГўВҖВҷd
OpposГўВҖВҷd in fight to Theseus: call to mind
The Hebrews, how effeminate they stoopГўВҖВҷd
To ease their thirst; whence GideonГўВҖВҷs ranks were thinnГўВҖВҷd,
As he to Midian marchГўВҖВҷd adown the hills.ГўВҖВқ

Thus near one border coasting, still we heard
The sins of gluttony, with woe erewhile
ReguerdonГўВҖВҷd. Then along the lonely path,
Once more at large, full thousand paces on
We travelГўВҖВҷd, each contemplative and mute.

ГўВҖВңWhy pensive journey thus ye three alone?ГўВҖВқ
Thus suddenly a voice exclaimГўВҖВҷd: whereat
I shook, as doth a scarГўВҖВҷd and paltry beast;
Then raisГўВҖВҷd my head to look from whence it came.

Was neГўВҖВҷer, in furnace, glass, or metal seen
So bright and glowing red, as was the shape
I now beheld. ГўВҖВңIf ye desire to mount,ГўВҖВқ
He cried, ГўВҖВңhere must ye turn. This way he goes,
Who goes in quest of peace.ГўВҖВқ His countenance
Had dazzled me; and to my guides I facГўВҖВҷd
Backward, like one who walks, as sound directs.

As when, to harbinger the dawn, springs up
On freshenГўВҖВҷd wing the air of May, and breathes
Of fragrance, all impregnГўВҖВҷd with herb and flowers,
EГўВҖВҷen such a wind I felt upon my front
Blow gently, and the moving of a wing
PerceivГўВҖВҷd, that moving shed ambrosial smell;
And then a voice: ГўВҖВңBlessed are they, whom grace
Doth so illume, that appetite in them
Exhaleth no inordinate desire,
Still hungГўВҖВҷring as the rule of temperance wills.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXV


It was an hour, when he who climbs, had need
To walk uncrippled: for the sun had now
To Taurus the meridian circle left,
And to the Scorpion left the night. As one
That makes no pause, but presses on his road,
WhateГўВҖВҷer betide him, if some urgent need
Impel: so enterГўВҖВҷd we upon our way,
One before other; for, but singly, none
That steep and narrow scale admits to climb.

EГўВҖВҷen as the young stork lifteth up his wing
Through wish to fly, yet ventures not to quit
The nest, and drops it; so in me desire
Of questioning my guide arose, and fell,
Arriving even to the act, that marks
A man preparГўВҖВҷd for speech. Him all our haste
RestrainГўВҖВҷd not, but thus spake the sire belovГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңFear not to speed the shaft, that on thy lip
Stands trembling for its flight.ГўВҖВқ EncouragГўВҖВҷd thus
I straight began: ГўВҖВңHow there can leanness come,
Where is no want of nourishment to feed?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf thou,ГўВҖВқ he answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңhadst rememberГўВҖВҷd thee,
How Meleager with the wasting brand
Wasted alike, by equal fires consumГўВҖВҷd,
This would not trouble thee: and hadst thou thought,
How in the mirror your reflected form
With mimic motion vibrates, what now seems
Hard, had appearГўВҖВҷd no harder than the pulp
Of summer fruit mature. But that thy will
In certainty may find its full repose,
Lo Statius here! on him I call, and pray
That he would now be healer of thy wound.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIf in thy presence I unfold to him
The secrets of heavenГўВҖВҷs vengeance, let me plead
Thine own injunction, to exculpate me.ГўВҖВқ
So Statius answerГўВҖВҷd, and forthwith began:
ГўВҖВңAttend my words, O son, and in thy mind
Receive them: so shall they be light to clear
The doubt thou offerГўВҖВҷst. Blood, concocted well,
Which by the thirsty veins is neГўВҖВҷer imbibГўВҖВҷd,
And rests as food superfluous, to be taГўВҖВҷen
From the replenishГўВҖВҷd table, in the heart
Derives effectual virtue, that informs
The several human limbs, as being that,
Which passes through the veins itself to make them.
Yet more concocted it descends, where shame
Forbids to mention: and from thence distils
In natural vessel on anotherГўВҖВҷs blood.
Then each unite together, one disposГўВҖВҷd
TГўВҖВҷ endure, to act the other, through meet frame
Of its recipient mould: that being reachГўВҖВҷd,
It ГўВҖВҷgins to work, coagulating first;
Then vivifies what its own substance causГўВҖВҷd
To bear. With animation now indued,
The active virtue (differing from a plant
No further, than that this is on the way
And at its limit that) continues yet
To operate, that now it moves, and feels,
As sea sponge clinging to the rock: and there
Assumes thГўВҖВҷ organic powers its seed conveyГўВҖВҷd.
ГўВҖВҳThis is the period, son! at which the virtue,
That from the generating heart proceeds,
Is pliant and expansive; for each limb
Is in the heart by forgeful nature plannГўВҖВҷd.
How babe of animal becomes, remains
For thy considГўВҖВҷring. At this point, more wise,
Than thou hast errГўВҖВҷd, making the soul disjoinГўВҖВҷd
From passive intellect, because he saw
No organ for the latterГўВҖВҷs use assignГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңOpen thy bosom to the truth that comes.
Know soon as in the embryo, to the brain,
Articulation is complete, then turns
The primal Mover with a smile of joy
On such great work of nature, and imbreathes
New spirit replete with virtue, that what here
Active it finds, to its own substance draws,
And forms an individual soul, that lives,
And feels, and bends reflective on itself.
And that thou less mayst marvel at the word,
Mark the sunГўВҖВҷs heat, how that to wine doth change,
MixГўВҖВҷd with the moisture filterГўВҖВҷd through the vine.

ГўВҖВңWhen Lachesis hath spun the thread, the soul
Takes with her both the human and divine,
Memory, intelligence, and will, in act
Far keener than before, the other powers
Inactive all and mute. No pause allowГўВҖВҷd,
In wondГўВҖВҷrous sort self-moving, to one strand
Of those, where the departed roam, she falls,
Here learns her destinГўВҖВҷd path. Soon as the place
Receives her, round the plastic virtue beams,
Distinct as in the living limbs before:
And as the air, when saturate with showers,
The casual beam refracting, decks itself
With many a hue; so here the ambient air
Weareth that form, which influence of the soul
Imprints on it; and like the flame, that where
The fire moves, thither follows, so henceforth
The new form on the spirit follows still:
Hence hath it semblance, and is shadow callГўВҖВҷd,
With each sense even to the sight endued:
Hence speech is ours, hence laughter, tears, and sighs
Which thou mayst oft have witnessГўВҖВҷd on the mount
ThГўВҖВҷ obedient shadow fails not to present
Whatever varying passion moves within us.
And this the cause of what thou marvelГўВҖВҷst at.ГўВҖВқ

Now the last flexure of our way we reachГўВҖВҷd,
And to the right hand turning, other care
Awaits us. Here the rocky precipice
Hurls forth redundant flames, and from the rim
A blast upblown, with forcible rebuff
Driveth them back, sequesterГўВҖВҷd from its bound.

BehoovГўВҖВҷd us, one by one, along the side,
That borderГўВҖВҷd on the void, to pass; and I
FearГўВҖВҷd on one hand the fire, on thГўВҖВҷ other fearГўВҖВҷd
Headlong to fall: when thus thГўВҖВҷ instructor warnГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңStrict rein must in this place direct the eyes.
A little swerving and the way is lost.ГўВҖВқ

Then from the bosom of the burning mass,
ГўВҖВңO God of mercy!ГўВҖВқ heard I sung; and felt
No less desire to turn. And when I saw
Spirits along the flame proceeding, I
Between their footsteps and mine own was fain
To share by turns my view. At the hymnГўВҖВҷs close
They shouted loud, ГўВҖВңI do not know a man;ГўВҖВқ
Then in low voice again took up the strain,
Which once more ended, ГўВҖВңTo the wood,ГўВҖВқ they cried,
ГўВҖВңRan Dian, and drave forth Callisto, stung
With CythereaГўВҖВҷs poison:ГўВҖВқ then returnГўВҖВҷd
Unto their song; then marry a pair extollГўВҖВҷd,
Who livГўВҖВҷd in virtue chastely, and the bands
Of wedded love. Nor from that task, I ween,
Surcease they; whilesoeГўВҖВҷer the scorching fire
Enclasps them. Of such skill appliance needs
To medicine the wound, that healeth last.




CANTO XXVI


While singly thus along the rim we walkГўВҖВҷd,
Oft the good master warnГўВҖВҷd me: ГўВҖВңLook thou well.
Avail it that I caution thee.ГўВҖВқ The sun
Now all the western clime irradiate changГўВҖВҷd
From azure tinct to white; and, as I passГўВҖВҷd,
My passing shadow made the umberГўВҖВҷd flame
Burn ruddier. At so strange a sight I markГўВҖВҷd
That many a spirit marvelГўВҖВҷd on his way.

This bred occasion first to speak of me,
ГўВҖВңHe seems,ГўВҖВқ said they, ГўВҖВңno insubstantial frame:ГўВҖВқ
Then to obtain what certainty they might,
StretchГўВҖВҷd towards me, careful not to overpass
The burning pale. ГўВҖВңO thou, who followest
The others, haply not more slow than they,
But movГўВҖВҷd by revГўВҖВҷrence, answer me, who burn
In thirst and fire: nor I alone, but these
All for thine answer do more thirst, than doth
Indian or Aethiop for the cooling stream.
Tell us, how is it that thou makГўВҖВҷst thyself
A wall against the sun, as thou not yet
Into thГўВҖВҷ inextricable toils of death
Hadst enterГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқ Thus spake one, and I had straight
DeclarГўВҖВҷd me, if attention had not turnГўВҖВҷd
To new appearance. Meeting these, there came,
Midway the burning path, a crowd, on whom
Earnestly gazing, from each part I view
The shadows all press forward, sevГўВҖВҷrally
Each snatch a hasty kiss, and then away.
EГўВҖВҷen so the emmets, ГўВҖВҷmid their dusky troops,
Peer closely one at other, to spy out
Their mutual road perchance, and how they thrive.

That friendly greeting parted, ere dispatch
Of the first onward step, from either tribe
Loud clamour rises: those, who newly come,
Shout ГўВҖВңSodom and Gomorrah!ГўВҖВқ these, ГўВҖВңThe cow
Pasiphae enterГўВҖВҷd, that the beast she wooГўВҖВҷd
Might rush unto her luxury.ГўВҖВқ Then as cranes,
That part towards the Riphaean mountains fly,
Part towards the Lybic sands, these to avoid
The ice, and those the sun; so hasteth off
One crowd, advances thГўВҖВҷ other; and resume
Their first song weeping, and their several shout.

Again drew near my side the very same,
Who had erewhile besought me, and their looks
MarkГўВҖВҷd eagerness to listen. I, who twice
Their will had noted, spake: ГўВҖВңO spirits secure,
WheneГўВҖВҷer the time may be, of peaceful end!
My limbs, nor crude, nor in mature old age,
Have I left yonder: here they bear me, fed
With blood, and sinew-strung. That I no more
May live in blindness, hence I tend aloft.
There is a dame on high, who wind for us
This grace, by which my mortal through your realm
I bear. But may your utmost wish soon meet
Such full fruition, that the orb of heaven,
Fullest of love, and of most ample space,
Receive you, as ye tell (upon my page
Henceforth to stand recorded) who ye are,
And what this multitude, that at your backs
Have past behind us.ГўВҖВқ As one, mountain-bred,
Rugged and clownish, if some cityГўВҖВҷs walls
He chance to enter, round him stares agape,
Confounded and struck dumb; eГўВҖВҷen such appearГўВҖВҷd
Each spirit. But when rid of that amaze,
(Not long the inmate of a noble heart)
He, who before had questionГўВҖВҷd, thus resumГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңO blessed, who, for death preparing, takГўВҖВҷst
Experience of our limits, in thy bark!
Their crime, who not with us proceed, was that,
For which, as he did triumph, Caesar heard
The snout of ГўВҖВҳqueen,ГўВҖВҷ to taunt him. Hence their cry
Of ГўВҖВҳSodom,ГўВҖВҷ as they parted, to rebuke
Themselves, and aid the burning by their shame.
Our sinning was Hermaphrodite: but we,
Because the law of human kind we broke,
Following like beasts our vile concupiscence,
Hence parting from them, to our own disgrace
Record the name of her, by whom the beast
In bestial tire was acted. Now our deeds
Thou knowГўВҖВҷst, and how we sinnГўВҖВҷd. If thou by name
Wouldst haply know us, time permits not now
To tell so much, nor can I. Of myself
Learn what thou wishest. Guinicelli I,
Who having truly sorrowГўВҖВҷd ere my last,
Already cleanse me.ГўВҖВқ With such pious joy,
As the two sons upon their mother gazГўВҖВҷd
From sad Lycurgus rescuГўВҖВҷd, such my joy
(Save that I more represt it) when I heard
From his own lips the name of him pronouncГўВҖВҷd,
Who was a father to me, and to those
My betters, who have ever usГўВҖВҷd the sweet
And pleasant rhymes of love. So nought I heard
Nor spake, but long time thoughtfully I went,
Gazing on him; and, only for the fire,
ApproachГўВҖВҷd not nearer. When my eyes were fed
By looking on him, with such solemn pledge,
As forces credence, I devoted me
Unto his service wholly. In reply
He thus bespake me: ГўВҖВңWhat from thee I hear
Is gravГўВҖВҷd so deeply on my mind, the waves
Of Lethe shall not wash it off, nor make
A whit less lively. But as now thy oath
Has sealГўВҖВҷd the truth, declare what cause impels
That love, which both thy looks and speech bewray.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThose dulcet lays,ГўВҖВқ I answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңwhich, as long
As of our tongue the beauty does not fade,
Shall make us love the very ink that tracГўВҖВҷd them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBrother!ГўВҖВқ he cried, and pointed at a shade
Before him, ГўВҖВңthere is one, whose mother speech
Doth owe to him a fairer ornament.
He in love ditties and the tales of prose
Without a rival stands, and lets the fools
Talk on, who think the songster of Limoges
OГўВҖВҷertops him. Rumour and the popular voice
They look to more than truth, and so confirm
Opinion, ere by art or reason taught.
Thus many of the elder time cried up
Guittone, giving him the prize, till truth
By strength of numbers vanquishГўВҖВҷd. If thou own
So ample privilege, as to have gainГўВҖВҷd
Free entrance to the cloister, whereof Christ
Is Abbot of the college, say to him
One paternoster for me, far as needs
For dwellers in this world, where power to sin
No longer tempts us.ГўВҖВқ Haply to make way
For one, that followГўВҖВҷd next, when that was said,
He vanishГўВҖВҷd through the fire, as through the wave
A fish, that glances diving to the deep.

I, to the spirit he had shown me, drew
A little onward, and besought his name,
For which my heart, I said, kept gracious room.
He frankly thus began: ГўВҖВңThy courtesy
So wins on me, I have nor power nor will
To hide me. I am Arnault; and with songs,
Sorely lamenting for my folly past,
Thorough this ford of fire I wade, and see
The day, I hope for, smiling in my view.
I pray ye by the worth that guides ye up
Unto the summit of the scale, in time
Remember ye my suffГўВҖВҷrings.ГўВҖВқ With such words
He disappearГўВҖВҷd in the refining flame.




CANTO XXVII


Now was the sun so stationГўВҖВҷd, as when first
His early radiance quivers on the heights,
Where streamГўВҖВҷd his MakerГўВҖВҷs blood, while Libra hangs
Above Hesperian Ebro, and new fires
Meridian flash on GangesГўВҖВҷ yellow tide.

So day was sinking, when theГўВҖВҷ angel of God
AppearГўВҖВҷd before us. Joy was in his mien.
Forth of the flame he stood upon the brink,
And with a voice, whose lively clearness far
SurpassГўВҖВҷd our human, ГўВҖВңBlessed are the pure
In heart,ГўВҖВқ he Sang: then near him as we came,
ГўВҖВңGo ye not further, holy spirits!ГўВҖВқ he cried,
ГўВҖВңEre the fire pierce you: enter in; and list
Attentive to the song ye hear from thence.ГўВҖВқ

I, when I heard his saying, was as one
Laid in the grave. My hands together claspГўВҖВҷd,
And upward stretching, on the fire I lookГўВҖВҷd,
And busy fancy conjurГўВҖВҷd up the forms
Erewhile beheld alive consumГўВҖВҷd in flames.

ThГўВҖВҷ escorting spirits turnГўВҖВҷd with gentle looks
Toward me, and the Mantuan spake: ГўВҖВңMy son,
Here torment thou mayst feel, but canst not death.
Remember thee, remember thee, if I
Safe eГўВҖВҷen on Geryon brought thee: now I come
More near to God, wilt thou not trust me now?
Of this be sure: though in its womb that flame
A thousand years containГўВҖВҷd thee, from thy head
No hair should perish. If thou doubt my truth,
Approach, and with thy hands thy vestureГўВҖВҷs hem
Stretch forth, and for thyself confirm belief.
Lay now all fear, O lay all fear aside.
Turn hither, and come onward undismayГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ
I still, though conscience urgГўВҖВҷdГўВҖВҷ no step advancГўВҖВҷd.

When still he saw me fixГўВҖВҷd and obstinate,
Somewhat disturbГўВҖВҷd he cried: ГўВҖВңMark now, my son,
From Beatrice thou art by this wall
Divided.ГўВҖВқ As at ThisbeГўВҖВҷs name the eye
Of Pyramus was openГўВҖВҷd (when life ebbГўВҖВҷd
Fast from his veins), and took one parting glance,
While vermeil dyed the mulberry; thus I turnГўВҖВҷd
To my sage guide, relenting, when I heard
The name, that springs forever in my breast.

He shook his forehead; and, ГўВҖВңHow long,ГўВҖВқ he said,
ГўВҖВңLinger we now?ГўВҖВқ then smilГўВҖВҷd, as one would smile
Upon a child, that eyes the fruit and yields.
Into the fire before me then he walkГўВҖВҷd;
And Statius, who erewhile no little space
Had parted us, he prayГўВҖВҷd to come behind.

I would have cast me into molten glass
To cool me, when I enterГўВҖВҷd; so intense
RagГўВҖВҷd the conflagrant mass. The sire belovГўВҖВҷd,
To comfort me, as he proceeded, still
Of Beatrice talkГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңHer eyes,ГўВҖВқ saith he,
ГўВҖВңEГўВҖВҷen now I seem to view.ГўВҖВқ From the other side
A voice, that sang, did guide us, and the voice
Following, with heedful ear, we issued forth,
There where the path led upward. ГўВҖВңCome,ГўВҖВқ we heard,
ГўВҖВңCome, blessed of my Father.ГўВҖВқ Such the sounds,
That hailГўВҖВҷd us from within a light, which shone
So radiant, I could not endure the view.
ГўВҖВңThe sun,ГўВҖВқ it added, ГўВҖВңhastes: and evening comes.
Delay not: ere the western sky is hung
With blackness, strive ye for the pass.ГўВҖВқ Our way
Upright within the rock arose, and facГўВҖВҷd
Such part of heavГўВҖВҷn, that from before my steps
The beams were shrouded of the sinking sun.

Nor many stairs were overpass, when now
By fading of the shadow we perceivГўВҖВҷd
The sun behind us couchГўВҖВҷd: and ere one face
Of darkness oГўВҖВҷer its measureless expanse
InvolvГўВҖВҷd thГўВҖВҷ horizon, and the night her lot
Held individual, each of us had made
A stair his pallet: not that will, but power,
Had failГўВҖВҷd us, by the nature of that mount
Forbidden further travel. As the goats,
That late have skippГўВҖВҷd and wantonГўВҖВҷd rapidly
Upon the craggy cliffs, ere they had taГўВҖВҷen
Their supper on the herb, now silent lie
And ruminate beneath the umbrage brown,
While noonday rages; and the goatherd leans
Upon his staff, and leaning watches them:
And as the swain, that lodges out all night
In quiet by his flock, lest beast of prey
Disperse them; even so all three abode,
I as a goat and as the shepherds they,
Close pent on either side by shelving rock.

A little glimpse of sky was seen above;
Yet by that little I beheld the stars
In magnitude and rustle shining forth
With more than wonted glory. As I lay,
Gazing on them, and in that fit of musing,
Sleep overcame me, sleep, that bringeth oft
Tidings of future hap. About the hour,
As I believe, when Venus from the east
First lightenГўВҖВҷd on the mountain, she whose orb
Seems always glowing with the fire of love,
A lady young and beautiful, I dreamГўВҖВҷd,
Was passing oГўВҖВҷer a lea; and, as she came,
Methought I saw her ever and anon
Bending to cull the flowers; and thus she sang:
ГўВҖВңKnow ye, whoever of my name would ask,
That I am Leah: for my brow to weave
A garland, these fair hands unwearied ply.
To please me at the crystal mirror, here
I deck me. But my sister Rachel, she
Before her glass abides the livelong day,
Her radiant eyes beholding, charmГўВҖВҷd no less,
Than I with this delightful task. Her joy
In contemplation, as in labour mine.ГўВҖВқ

And now as glimmГўВҖВҷring dawn appearГўВҖВҷd, that breaks
More welcome to the pilgrim still, as he
Sojourns less distant on his homeward way,
Darkness from all sides fled, and with it fled
My slumber; whence I rose and saw my guide
Already risen. ГўВҖВңThat delicious fruit,
Which through so many a branch the zealous care
Of mortals roams in quest of, shall this day
Appease thy hunger.ГўВҖВқ Such the words I heard
From VirgilГўВҖВҷs lip; and never greeting heard
So pleasant as the sounds. Within me straight
Desire so grew upon desire to mount,
Thenceforward at each step I felt the wings
Increasing for my flight. When we had run
OГўВҖВҷer all the ladder to its topmost round,
As there we stood, on me the Mantuan fixГўВҖВҷd
His eyes, and thus he spake: ГўВҖВңBoth fires, my son,
The temporal and eternal, thou hast seen,
And art arrivГўВҖВҷd, where of itself my ken
No further reaches. I with skill and art
Thus far have drawn thee. Now thy pleasure take
For guide. Thou hast oГўВҖВҷercome the steeper way,
OГўВҖВҷercome the straighter. Lo! the sun, that darts
His beam upon thy forehead! lo! the herb,
The arboreta and flowers, which of itself
This land pours forth profuse! Till those bright eyes
With gladness come, which, weeping, made me haste
To succour thee, thou mayst or seat thee down,
Or wander where thou wilt. Expect no more
Sanction of warning voice or sign from me,
Free of thy own arbitrement to choose,
Discreet, judicious. To distrust thy sense
Were henceforth error. I invest thee then
With crown and mitre, sovereign oГўВҖВҷer thyself.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXVIII


Through that celestial forest, whose thick shade
With lively greenness the new-springing day
AttemperГўВҖВҷd, eager now to roam, and search
Its limits round, forthwith I left the bank,
Along the champain leisurely my way
Pursuing, oГўВҖВҷer the ground, that on all sides
Delicious odour breathГўВҖВҷd. A pleasant air,
That intermitted never, never veerГўВҖВҷd,
Smote on my temples, gently, as a wind
Of softest influence: at which the sprays,
Obedient all, leanГўВҖВҷd trembling to that part
Where first the holy mountain casts his shade,
Yet were not so disorderГўВҖВҷd, but that still
Upon their top the featherГўВҖВҷd quiristers
Applied their wonted art, and with full joy
WelcomГўВҖВҷd those hours of prime, and warbled shrill
Amid the leaves, that to their jocund lays
inept tenor; even as from branch to branch,
Along the piney forests on the shore
Of Chiassi, rolls the gathГўВҖВҷring melody,
When Eolus hath from his cavern loosГўВҖВҷd
The dripping south. Already had my steps,
Though slow, so far into that ancient wood
Transported me, I could not ken the place
Where I had enterГўВҖВҷd, when behold! my path
Was bounded by a rill, which to the left
With little rippling waters bent the grass,
That issued from its brink. On earth no wave
How clean soeГўВҖВҷer, that would not seem to have
Some mixture in itself, comparГўВҖВҷd with this,
Transpicuous, clear; yet darkly on it rollГўВҖВҷd,
Darkly beneath perpetual gloom, which neГўВҖВҷer
Admits or sun or moon light there to shine.

My feet advancГўВҖВҷd not; but my wondГўВҖВҷring eyes
PassГўВҖВҷd onward, oГўВҖВҷer the streamlet, to survey
The tender May-bloom, flushГўВҖВҷd through many a hue,
In prodigal variety: and there,
As object, rising suddenly to view,
That from our bosom every thought beside
With the rare marvel chases, I beheld
A lady all alone, who, singing, went,
And culling flower from flower, wherewith her way
Was all oГўВҖВҷer painted. ГўВҖВңLady beautiful!
Thou, who (if looks, that use to speak the heart,
Are worthy of our trust), with loveГўВҖВҷs own beam
Dost warm thee,ГўВҖВқ thus to her my speech I framГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңAh! please thee hither towards the streamlet bend
Thy steps so near, that I may list thy song.
Beholding thee and this fair place, methinks,
I call to mind where wanderГўВҖВҷd and how lookГўВҖВҷd
Proserpine, in that season, when her child
The mother lost, and she the bloomy spring.ГўВҖВқ

As when a lady, turning in the dance,
Doth foot it featly, and advances scarce
One step before the other to the ground;
Over the yellow and vermilion flowers
Thus turnГўВҖВҷd she at my suit, most maiden-like,
Valing her sober eyes, and came so near,
That I distinctly caught the dulcet sound.
Arriving where the limped waters now
LavГўВҖВҷd the green sward, her eyes she deignГўВҖВҷd to raise,
That shot such splendour on me, as I ween
NeГўВҖВҷer glanced from CythereaГўВҖВҷs, when her son
Had sped his keenest weapon to her heart.
Upon the opposite bank she stood and smilГўВҖВҷd
through her graceful fingers shifted still
The intermingling dyes, which without seed
That lofty land unbosoms. By the stream
Three paces only were we sunderГўВҖВҷd: yet
The Hellespont, where Xerxes passГўВҖВҷd it oГўВҖВҷer,
(A curb for ever to the pride of man)
Was by Leander not more hateful held
For floating, with inhospitable wave
ГўВҖВҷTwixt Sestus and Abydos, than by me
That flood, because it gave no passage thence.

ГўВҖВңStrangers ye come, and haply in this place,
That cradled human nature in its birth,
WondГўВҖВҷring, ye not without suspicion view
My smiles: but that sweet strain of psalmody,
ГўВҖВҳThou, Lord! hast made me glad,ГўВҖВҷ will give ye light,
Which may uncloud your minds. And thou, who standГўВҖВҷst
The foremost, and didst make thy suit to me,
Say if aught else thou wish to hear: for I
Came prompt to answer every doubt of thine.ГўВҖВқ

She spake; and I replied: ГўВҖВңI know not how
To reconcile this wave and rustling sound
Of forest leaves, with what I late have heard
Of opposite report.ГўВҖВқ She answering thus:
ГўВҖВңI will unfold the cause, whence that proceeds,
Which makes thee wonder; and so purge the cloud
That hath enwraps thee. The First Good, whose joy
Is only in himself, created man
For happiness, and gave this goodly place,
His pledge and earnest of eternal peace.
FavourГўВҖВҷd thus highly, through his own defect
He fell, and here made short sojourn; he fell,
And, for the bitterness of sorrow, changГўВҖВҷd
Laughter unblamГўВҖВҷd and ever-new delight.
That vapours none, exhalГўВҖВҷd from earth beneath,
Or from the waters (which, wherever heat
Attracts them, follow), might ascend thus far
To vex manГўВҖВҷs peaceful state, this mountain rose
So high toward the heavГўВҖВҷn, nor fears the rage
Of elements contending, from that part
Exempted, where the gate his limit bars.
Because the circumambient air throughout
With its first impulse circles still, unless
Aught interpose to cheek or thwart its course;
Upon the summit, which on every side
To visitation of thГўВҖВҷ impassive air
Is open, doth that motion strike, and makes
Beneath its sway thГўВҖВҷ umbrageous wood resound:
And in the shaken plant such power resides,
That it impregnates with its efficacy
The voyaging breeze, upon whose subtle plume
That wafted flies abroad; and thГўВҖВҷ other land
Receiving (as ГўВҖВҷt is worthy in itself,
Or in the clime, that warms it), doth conceive,
And from its womb produces many a tree
Of various virtue. This when thou hast heard,
The marvel ceases, if in yonder earth
Some plant without apparent seed be found
To fix its fibrous stem. And further learn,
That with prolific foison of all seeds,
This holy plain is fillГўВҖВҷd, and in itself
Bears fruit that neГўВҖВҷer was pluckГўВҖВҷd on other soil.
The water, thou beholdГўВҖВҷst, springs not from vein,
As stream, that intermittently repairs
And spends his pulse of life, but issues forth
From fountain, solid, undecaying, sure;
And by the will omnific, full supply
Feeds whatsoeГўВҖВҷer On either side it pours;
On this devolvГўВҖВҷd with power to take away
Remembrance of offence, on that to bring
Remembrance back of every good deed done.
From whence its name of Lethe on this part;
On thГўВҖВҷ other Eunoe: both of which must first
Be tasted ere it work; the last exceeding
All flavours else. Albeit thy thirst may now
Be well contented, if I here break off,
No more revealing: yet a corollary
I freely give beside: nor deem my words
Less grateful to thee, if they somewhat pass
The stretch of promise. They, whose verse of yore
The golden age recorded and its bliss,
On the Parnassian mountain, of this place
Perhaps had dreamГўВҖВҷd. Here was man guiltless, here
Perpetual spring and every fruit, and this
The far-famГўВҖВҷd nectar.ГўВҖВқ Turning to the bards,
When she had ceasГўВҖВҷd, I noted in their looks
A smile at her conclusion; then my face
Again directed to the lovely dame.




CANTO XXIX


Singing, as if enamourГўВҖВҷd, she resumГўВҖВҷd
And closГўВҖВҷd the song, with ГўВҖВңBlessed they whose sins
Are coverГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ Like the wood-nymphs then, that trippГўВҖВҷd
Singly across the sylvan shadows, one
Eager to view and one to ГўВҖВҷscape the sun,
So movГўВҖВҷd she on, against the current, up
The verdant rivage. I, her mincing step
Observing, with as tardy step pursued.

Between us not an hundred paces trod,
The bank, on each side bending equally,
Gave me to face the orient. Nor our way
Far onward brought us, when to me at once
She turnГўВҖВҷd, and cried: ГўВҖВңMy brother! look and hearken.ГўВҖВқ
And lo! a sudden lustre ran across
Through the great forest on all parts, so bright
I doubted whether lightning were abroad;
But that expiring ever in the spleen,
That doth unfold it, and this during still
And waxing still in splendor, made me question
What it might be: and a sweet melody
Ran through the luminous air. Then did I chide
With warrantable zeal the hardihood
Of our first parent, for that there were earth
Stood in obedience to the heavГўВҖВҷns, she only,
Woman, the creature of an hour, endurГўВҖВҷd not
Restraint of any veil: which had she borne
Devoutly, joys, ineffable as these,
Had from the first, and long time since, been mine.

While through that wilderness of primy sweets
That never fade, suspense I walkГўВҖВҷd, and yet
Expectant of beatitude more high,
Before us, like a blazing fire, the air
Under the green boughs glowГўВҖВҷd; and, for a song,
Distinct the sound of melody was heard.

O ye thrice holy virgins! for your sakes
If eГўВҖВҷer I sufferГўВҖВҷd hunger, cold and watching,
Occasion calls on me to crave your bounty.
Now through my breast let Helicon his stream
Pour copious; and Urania with her choir
Arise to aid me: while the verse unfolds
Things that do almost mock the grasp of thought.

Onward a space, what seemГўВҖВҷd seven trees of gold,
The intervening distance to mine eye
Falsely presented; but when I was come
So near them, that no lineament was lost
Of those, with which a doubtful object, seen
Remotely, plays on the misdeeming sense,
Then did the faculty, that ministers
Discourse to reason, these for tapers of gold
Distinguish, and it thГўВҖВҷ singing trace the sound
ГўВҖВңHosanna.ГўВҖВқ Above, their beauteous garniture
FlamГўВҖВҷd with more ample lustre, than the moon
Through cloudless sky at midnight in her full.

I turnГўВҖВҷd me full of wonder to my guide;
And he did answer with a countenance
ChargГўВҖВҷd with no less amazement: whence my view
Reverted to those lofty things, which came
So slowly moving towards us, that the bride
Would have outstript them on her bridal day.

The lady called aloud: ГўВҖВңWhy thus yet burns
Affection in thee for these living, lights,
And dost not look on that which follows them?ГўВҖВқ

I straightway markГўВҖВҷd a tribe behind them walk,
As if attendant on their leaders, clothГўВҖВҷd
With raiment of such whiteness, as on earth
Was never. On my left, the watГўВҖВҷry gleam
BorrowГўВҖВҷd, and gave me back, when there I lookГўВҖВҷd.
As in a mirror, my left side portrayГўВҖВҷd.

When I had chosen on the riverГўВҖВҷs edge
Such station, that the distance of the stream
Alone did separate me; there I stayГўВҖВҷd
My steps for clearer prospect, and beheld
The flames go onward, leaving, as they went,
The air behind them painted as with trail
Of liveliest pencils! so distinct were markГўВҖВҷd
All those sevГўВҖВҷn listed colours, whence the sun
Maketh his bow, and Cynthia her zone.
These streaming gonfalons did flow beyond
My vision; and ten paces, as I guess,
Parted the outermost. Beneath a sky
So beautiful, came foul and-twenty elders,
By two and two, with flower-de-luces crownГўВҖВҷd.

All sang one song: ГўВҖВңBlessed be thou among
The daughters of Adam! and thy loveliness
Blessed for ever!ГўВҖВқ After that the flowers,
And the fresh herblets, on the opposite brink,
Were free from that elected race; as light
In heavГўВҖВҷn doth second light, came after them
Four animals, each crownГўВҖВҷd with verdurous leaf.
With six wings each was plumГўВҖВҷd, the plumage full
Of eyes, and thГўВҖВҷ eyes of Argus would be such,
Were they endued with life. Reader, more rhymes
Will not waste in shadowing forth their form:
For other need no straitens, that in this
I may not give my bounty room. But read
Ezekiel; for he paints them, from the north
How he beheld them come by ChebarГўВҖВҷs flood,
In whirlwind, cloud and fire; and even such
As thou shalt find them characterГўВҖВҷd by him,
Here were they; save as to the pennons; there,
From him departing, John accords with me.

The space, surrounded by the four, enclosГўВҖВҷd
A car triumphal: on two wheels it came
Drawn at a GryphonГўВҖВҷs neck; and he above
StretchГўВҖВҷd either wing uplifted, ГўВҖВҷtween the midst
And the three listed hues, on each side three;
So that the wings did cleave or injure none;
And out of sight they rose. The members, far
As he was bird, were golden; white the rest
With vermeil interveinГўВҖВҷd. So beautiful
A car in Rome neГўВҖВҷer gracГўВҖВҷd Augustus pomp,
Or AfricanusГўВҖВҷ: eГўВҖВҷen the sunГўВҖВҷs itself
Were poor to this, that chariot of the sun
Erroneous, which in blazing ruin fell
At TellusГўВҖВҷ prayГўВҖВҷr devout, by the just doom
Mysterious of all-seeing Jove. Three nymphs
at the right wheel, came circling in smooth dance;
The one so ruddy, that her form had scarce
Been known within a furnace of clear flame:
The next did look, as if the flesh and bones
Were emerald: snow new-fallen seemГўВҖВҷd the third.

Now seemГўВҖВҷd the white to lead, the ruddy now;
And from her song who led, the others took
Their treasure, swift or slow. At thГўВҖВҷ other wheel,
A band quaternion, each in purple clad,
AdvancГўВҖВҷd with festal step, as of them one
The rest conducted, one, upon whose front
Three eyes were seen. In rear of all this group,
Two old men I beheld, dissimilar
In raiment, but in port and gesture like,
Solid and mainly grave; of whom the one
Did show himself some favourГўВҖВҷd counsellor
Of the great Coan, him, whom nature made
To serve the costliest creature of her tribe.
His fellow markГўВҖВҷd an opposite intent,
Bearing a sword, whose glitterance and keen edge,
EГўВҖВҷen as I viewГўВҖВҷd it with the flood between,
AppallГўВҖВҷd me. Next four others I beheld,
Of humble seeming: and, behind them all,
One single old man, sleeping, as he came,
With a shrewd visage. And these seven, each
Like the first troop were habited, but wore
No braid of lilies on their temples wreathГўВҖВҷd.
Rather with roses and each vermeil flower,
A sight, but little distant, might have sworn,
That they were all on fire above their brow.

Whenas the car was oГўВҖВҷer against me, straight.
Was heard a thundГўВҖВҷring, at whose voice it seemГўВҖВҷd
The chosen multitude were stayГўВҖВҷd; for there,
With the first ensigns, made they solemn halt.




CANTO XXX


Soon as the polar light, which never knows
Setting nor rising, nor the shadowy veil
Of other cloud than sin, fair ornament
Of the first heavГўВҖВҷn, to duty each one there
Safely convoying, as that lower doth
The steersman to his port, stood firmly fixГўВҖВҷd;
Forthwith the saintly tribe, who in the van
Between the Gryphon and its radiance came,
Did turn them to the car, as to their rest:
And one, as if commissionГўВҖВҷd from above,
In holy chant thrice shorted forth aloud:
ГўВҖВңCome, spouse, from Libanus!ГўВҖВқ and all the rest
Took up the songГўВҖВ”At the last audit so
The blest shall rise, from forth his cavern each
Uplifting lightly his new-vested flesh,
As, on the sacred litter, at the voice
Authoritative of that elder, sprang
A hundred ministers and messengers
Of life eternal. ГўВҖВңBlessed thou! who comГўВҖВҷst!ГўВҖВқ
And, ГўВҖВңO,ГўВҖВқ they cried, ГўВҖВңfrom full hands scatter ye
UnwithГўВҖВҷring lilies;ГўВҖВқ and, so saying, cast
Flowers over head and round them on all sides.

I have beheld, ere now, at break of day,
The eastern clime all roseate, and the sky
OpposГўВҖВҷd, one deep and beautiful serene,
And the sunГўВҖВҷs face so shaded, and with mists
AttemperГўВҖВҷd at lids rising, that the eye
Long while endurГўВҖВҷd the sight: thus in a cloud
Of flowers, that from those hands angelic rose,
And down, within and outside of the car,
Fell showering, in white veil with olive wreathГўВҖВҷd,
A virgin in my view appearГўВҖВҷd, beneath
Green mantle, robГўВҖВҷd in hue of living flame:

And oГўВҖВҷer my Spirit, that in former days
Within her presence had abode so long,
No shuddГўВҖВҷring terror crept. Mine eyes no more
Had knowledge of her; yet there movГўВҖВҷd from her
A hidden virtue, at whose touch awakГўВҖВҷd,
The power of ancient love was strong within me.

No sooner on my vision streaming, smote
The heavГўВҖВҷnly influence, which years past, and eГўВҖВҷen
In childhood, thrillГўВҖВҷd me, than towards Virgil I
TurnГўВҖВҷd me to leftward, panting, like a babe,
That flees for refuge to his motherГўВҖВҷs breast,
If aught have terrified or workГўВҖВҷd him woe:
And would have cried: ГўВҖВңThere is no dram of blood,
That doth not quiver in me. The old flame
Throws out clear tokens of reviving fire:ГўВҖВқ
But Virgil had bereavГўВҖВҷd us of himself,
Virgil, my best-lovГўВҖВҷd father; Virgil, he
To whom I gave me up for safety: nor,
All, our prime mother lost, availГўВҖВҷd to save
My undewГўВҖВҷd cheeks from blur of soiling tears.

ГўВҖВңDante, weep not, that Virgil leaves thee: nay,
Weep thou not yet: behooves thee feel the edge
Of other sword, and thou shalt weep for that.ГўВҖВқ

As to the prow or stern, some admiral
Paces the deck, inspiriting his crew,
When ГўВҖВҷmid the sail-yards all hands ply aloof;
Thus on the left side of the car I saw,
(Turning me at the sound of mine own name,
Which here I am compellГўВҖВҷd to register)
The virgin stationГўВҖВҷd, who before appeared
VeilГўВҖВҷd in that festive shower angelical.

Towards me, across the stream, she bent her eyes;
Though from her brow the veil descending, bound
With foliage of Minerva, sufferГўВҖВҷd not
That I beheld her clearly; then with act
Full royal, still insulting oГўВҖВҷer her thrall,
Added, as one, who speaking keepeth back
The bitterest saying, to conclude the speech:
ГўВҖВңObserve me well. I am, in sooth, I am
Beatrice. What! and hast thou deignГўВҖВҷd at last
Approach the mountain? knewest not, O man!
Thy happiness is whole?ГўВҖВқ Down fell mine eyes
On the clear fount, but there, myself espying,
RecoilГўВҖВҷd, and sought the greensward: such a weight
Of shame was on my forehead. With a mien
Of that stern majesty, which doth surround
motherГўВҖВҷs presence to her awe-struck child,
She lookГўВҖВҷd; a flavour of such bitterness
Was mingled in her pity. There her words
Brake off, and suddenly the angels sang:
ГўВҖВңIn thee, O gracious Lord, my hope hath been:ГўВҖВқ
But went no farther than, ГўВҖВңThou Lord, hast set
My feet in ample room.ГўВҖВқ As snow, that lies
Amidst the living rafters on the back
Of Italy congealГўВҖВҷd when drifted high
And closely pilГўВҖВҷd by rough Sclavonian blasts,
Breathe but the land whereon no shadow falls,
And straightway melting it distils away,
Like a fire-wasted taper: thus was I,
Without a sigh or tear, or ever these
Did sing, that with the chiming of heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs sphere,
Still in their warbling chime: but when the strain
Of dulcet symphony, expressГўВҖВҷd for me
Their soft compassion, more than could the words
ГўВҖВңVirgin, why so consumГўВҖВҷst him?ГўВҖВқ then the ice,
CongealГўВҖВҷd about my bosom, turnГўВҖВҷd itself
To spirit and water, and with anguish forth
GushГўВҖВҷd through the lips and eyelids from the heart.

Upon the chariotГўВҖВҷs right edge still she stood,
Immovable, and thus addressГўВҖВҷd her words
To those bright semblances with pity touchГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңYe in thГўВҖВҷ eternal day your vigils keep,
So that nor night nor slumber, with close stealth,
Conveys from you a single step in all
The goings on of life: thence with more heed
I shape mine answer, for his ear intended,
Who there stands weeping, that the sorrow now
May equal the transgression. Not alone
Through operation of the mighty orbs,
That mark each seed to some predestinГўВҖВҷd aim,
As with aspect or fortunate or ill
The constellations meet, but through benign
Largess of heavГўВҖВҷnly graces, which rain down
From such a height, as mocks our vision, this man
Was in the freshness of his being, such,
So gifted virtually, that in him
All better habits wondГўВҖВҷrously had thrivГўВҖВҷd.
The more of kindly strength is in the soil,
So much doth evil seed and lack of culture
Mar it the more, and make it run to wildness.
These looks sometime upheld him; for I showГўВҖВҷd
My youthful eyes, and led him by their light
In upright walking. Soon as I had reachГўВҖВҷd
The threshold of my second age, and changГўВҖВҷd
My mortal for immortal, then he left me,
And gave himself to others. When from flesh
To spirit I had risen, and increase
Of beauty and of virtue circled me,
I was less dear to him, and valued less.
His steps were turnГўВҖВҷd into deceitful ways,
Following false images of good, that make
No promise perfect. Nor availГўВҖВҷd me aught
To sue for inspirations, with the which,
I, both in dreams of night, and otherwise,
Did call him back; of them so little reckГўВҖВҷd him,
Such depth he fell, that all device was short
Of his preserving, save that he should view
The children of perdition. To this end
I visited the purlieus of the dead:
And one, who hath conducted him thus high,
ReceivГўВҖВҷd my supplications urgГўВҖВҷd with weeping.
It were a breaking of GodГўВҖВҷs high decree,
If Lethe should be past, and such food tasted
Without the cost of some repentant tear.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXXI


ГўВҖВңO Thou!ГўВҖВқ her words she thus without delay
Resuming, turnГўВҖВҷd their point on me, to whom
They but with lateral edge seemГўВҖВҷd harsh before,
ГўВҖВңSay thou, who standГўВҖВҷst beyond the holy stream,
If this be true. A charge so grievous needs
Thine own avowal.ГўВҖВқ On my faculty
Such strange amazement hung, the voice expirГўВҖВҷd
Imperfect, ere its organs gave it birth.

A little space refraining, then she spake:
ГўВҖВңWhat dost thou muse on? Answer me. The wave
On thy remembrances of evil yet
Hath done no injury.ГўВҖВқ A mingled sense
Of fear and of confusion, from my lips
Did such a ГўВҖВңYeaГўВҖВқ produce, as needed help
Of vision to interpret. As when breaks
In act to be dischargГўВҖВҷd, a cross-bow bent
Beyond its pitch, both nerve and bow oГўВҖВҷerstretchГўВҖВҷd,
The flagging weapon feebly hits the mark;
Thus, tears and sighs forth gushing, did I burst
Beneath the heavy load, and thus my voice
Was slackenГўВҖВҷd on its way. She straight began:
ГўВҖВңWhen my desire invited thee to love
The good, which sets a bound to our aspirings,
What bar of thwarting foss or linked chain
Did meet thee, that thou so shouldГўВҖВҷst quit the hope
Of further progress, or what bait of ease
Or promise of allurement led thee on
Elsewhere, that thou elsewhere shouldГўВҖВҷst rather wait?ГўВҖВқ

A bitter sigh I drew, then scarce found voice
To answer, hardly to these sounds my lips
Gave utterance, wailing: ГўВҖВңThy fair looks withdrawn,
Things present, with deceitful pleasures, turnГўВҖВҷd
My steps aside.ГўВҖВқ She answering spake: ГўВҖВңHadst thou
Been silent, or denied what thou avowГўВҖВҷst,
Thou hadst not hid thy sin the more: such eye
Observes it. But wheneГўВҖВҷer the sinnerГўВҖВҷs cheek
Breaks forth into the precious-streaming tears
Of self-accusing, in our court the wheel
Of justice doth run counter to the edge.
HoweГўВҖВҷer that thou mayГўВҖВҷst profit by thy shame
For errors past, and that henceforth more strength
May arm thee, when thou hearГўВҖВҷst the Siren-voice,
Lay thou aside the motive to this grief,
And lend attentive ear, while I unfold
How opposite a way my buried flesh
Should have impellГўВҖВҷd thee. Never didst thou spy
In art or nature aught so passing sweet,
As were the limbs, that in their beauteous frame
EnclosГўВҖВҷd me, and are scatterГўВҖВҷd now in dust.
If sweetest thing thus failГўВҖВҷd thee with my death,
What, afterward, of mortal should thy wish
Have tempted? When thou first hadst felt the dart
Of perishable things, in my departing
For better realms, thy wing thou shouldГўВҖВҷst have prunГўВҖВҷd
To follow me, and never stoopГўВҖВҷd again
To ГўВҖВҷbide a second blow for a slight girl,
Or other gaud as transient and as vain.
The new and inexperiencГўВҖВҷd bird awaits,
Twice it may be, or thrice, the fowlerГўВҖВҷs aim;
But in the sight of one, whose plumes are full,
In vain the net is spread, the arrow wingГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

I stood, as children silent and ashamГўВҖВҷd
Stand, listГўВҖВҷning, with their eyes upon the earth,
Acknowledging their fault and self-condemnГўВҖВҷd.
And she resumГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңIf, but to hear thus pains thee,
Raise thou thy beard, and lo! what sight shall do!ГўВҖВқ

With less reluctance yields a sturdy holm,
Rent from its fibers by a blast, that blows
From off the pole, or from IarbasГўВҖВҷ land,
Than I at her behest my visage raisГўВҖВҷd:
And thus the face denoting by the beard,
I markГўВҖВҷd the secret sting her words conveyГўВҖВҷd.

No sooner lifted I mine aspect up,
Than downward sunk that vision I beheld
Of goodly creatures vanish; and mine eyes
Yet unassurГўВҖВҷd and wavering, bent their light
On Beatrice. Towards the animal,
Who joins two natures in one form, she turnГўВҖВҷd,
And, even under shadow of her veil,
And parted by the verdant rill, that flowГўВҖВҷd
Between, in loveliness appearГўВҖВҷd as much
Her former self surpassing, as on earth
All others she surpassГўВҖВҷd. Remorseful goads
Shot sudden through me. Each thing else, the more
Its love had late beguilГўВҖВҷd me, now the more
I Was loathsome. On my heart so keenly smote
The bitter consciousness, that on the ground
OГўВҖВҷerpowerГўВҖВҷd I fell: and what my state was then,
She knows who was the cause. When now my strength
FlowГўВҖВҷd back, returning outward from the heart,
The lady, whom alone I first had seen,
I found above me. ГўВҖВңLoose me not,ГўВҖВқ she cried:
ГўВҖВңLoose not thy hold;ГўВҖВқ and lo! had draggГўВҖВҷd me high
As to my neck into the stream, while she,
Still as she drew me after, swept along,
Swift as a shuttle, bounding oГўВҖВҷer the wave.

The blessed shore approaching then was heard
So sweetly, ГўВҖВңTu asperges me,ГўВҖВқ that I
May not remember, much less tell the sound.
The beauteous dame, her arms expanding, claspГўВҖВҷd
My temples, and immergГўВҖВҷd me, where ГўВҖВҷt was fit
The wave should drench me: and thence raising up,
Within the fourfold dance of lovely nymphs
Presented me so lavГўВҖВҷd, and with their arm
They each did cover me. ГўВҖВңHere are we nymphs,
And in the heavГўВҖВҷn are stars. Or ever earth
Was visited of Beatrice, we
Appointed for her handmaids, tended on her.
We to her eyes will lead thee; but the light
Of gladness that is in them, well to scan,
Those yonder three, of deeper ken than ours,
Thy sight shall quicken.ГўВҖВқ Thus began their song;
And then they led me to the GryphonГўВҖВҷs breast,
While, turnГўВҖВҷd toward us, Beatrice stood.
ГўВҖВңSpare not thy vision. We have stationed thee
Before the emeralds, whence love erewhile
Hath drawn his weapons on thee.ГўВҖВқ As they spake,
A thousand fervent wishes riveted
Mine eyes upon her beaming eyes, that stood
Still fixГўВҖВҷd toward the Gryphon motionless.
As the sun strikes a mirror, even thus
Within those orbs the twofold being, shone,
For ever varying, in one figure now
Reflected, now in other. Reader! muse
How wondГўВҖВҷrous in my sight it seemГўВҖВҷd to mark
A thing, albeit steadfast in itself,
Yet in its imagГўВҖВҷd semblance mutable.

Full of amaze, and joyous, while my soul
Fed on the viand, whereof still desire
Grows with satiety, the other three
With gesture, that declarГўВҖВҷd a loftier line,
AdvancГўВҖВҷd: to their own carol on they came
Dancing in festive ring angelical.

ГўВҖВңTurn, Beatrice!ГўВҖВқ was their song: ГўВҖВңO turn
Thy saintly sight on this thy faithful one,
Who to behold thee many a wearisome pace
Hath measurГўВҖВҷd. Gracious at our prayГўВҖВҷr vouchsafe
Unveil to him thy cheeks: that he may mark
Thy second beauty, now concealГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ O splendour!
O sacred light eternal! who is he
So pale with musing in Pierian shades,
Or with that fount so lavishly imbued,
Whose spirit should not fail him in thГўВҖВҷ essay
To represent thee such as thou didst seem,
When under cope of the still-chiming heaven
Thou gavГўВҖВҷst to open air thy charms revealГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO XXXII


Mine eyes with such an eager coveting,
Were bent to rid them of their ten yearsГўВҖВҷ thirst,
No other sense was waking: and eГўВҖВҷen they
Were fencГўВҖВҷd on either side from heed of aught;
So tangled in its customГўВҖВҷd toils that smile
Of saintly brightness drew me to itself,
When forcibly toward the left my sight
The sacred virgins turnГўВҖВҷd; for from their lips
I heard the warning sounds: ГўВҖВңToo fixГўВҖВҷd a gaze!ГўВҖВқ

Awhile my vision laborГўВҖВҷd; as when late
Upon theГўВҖВҷ oГўВҖВҷerstrained eyes the sun hath smote:
But soon to lesser object, as the view
Was now recoverГўВҖВҷd (lesser in respect
To that excess of sensible, whence late
I had perforce been sunderГўВҖВҷd) on their right
I markГўВҖВҷd that glorious army wheel, and turn,
Against the sun and sevГўВҖВҷnfold lights, their front.
As when, their bucklers for protection raisГўВҖВҷd,
A well-rangГўВҖВҷd troop, with portly banners curlГўВҖВҷd,
Wheel circling, ere the whole can change their ground:
EГўВҖВҷen thus the goodly regiment of heavГўВҖВҷn
Proceeding, all did pass us, ere the car
Had slopГўВҖВҷd his beam. Attendant at the wheels
The damsels turnГўВҖВҷd; and on the Gryphon movГўВҖВҷd
The sacred burden, with a pace so smooth,
No feather on him trembled. The fair dame
Who through the wave had drawn me, companied
By Statius and myself, pursued the wheel,
Whose orbit, rolling, markГўВҖВҷd a lesser arch.

Through the high wood, now void (the more her blame,
Who by the serpent was beguilГўВҖВҷd) I past
With step in cadence to the harmony
Angelic. Onward had we movГўВҖВҷd, as far
Perchance as arrow at three several flights
Full wingГўВҖВҷd had sped, when from her station down
Descended Beatrice. With one voice
All murmurГўВҖВҷd ГўВҖВңAdam,ГўВҖВқ circling next a plant
DespoilГўВҖВҷd of flowers and leaf on every bough.
Its tresses, spreading more as more they rose,
Were such, as ГўВҖВҷmidst their forest wilds for height
The Indians might have gazГўВҖВҷd at. ГўВҖВңBlessed thou!
Gryphon, whose beak hath never pluckГўВҖВҷd that tree
Pleasant to taste: for hence the appetite
Was warpГўВҖВҷd to evil.ГўВҖВқ Round the stately trunk
Thus shouted forth the rest, to whom returnГўВҖВҷd
The animal twice-genderГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңYea: for so
The generation of the just are savГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ
And turning to the chariot-pole, to foot
He drew it of the widowГўВҖВҷd branch, and bound
There left unto the stock whereon it grew.

As when large floods of radiance from above
Stream, with that radiance mingled, which ascends
Next after setting of the scaly sign,
Our plants then burgeon, and each wears anew
His wonted colours, ere the sun have yokГўВҖВҷd
Beneath another star his flamy steeds;
Thus putting forth a hue, more faint than rose,
And deeper than the violet, was renewГўВҖВҷd
The plant, erewhile in all its branches bare.

Unearthly was the hymn, which then arose.
I understood it not, nor to the end
EndurГўВҖВҷd the harmony. Had I the skill
To pencil forth, how closГўВҖВҷd thГўВҖВҷ unpitying eyes
SlumbГўВҖВҷring, when Syrinx warbled, (eyes that paid
So dearly for their watching,) then like painter,
That with a model paints, I might design
The manner of my falling into sleep.
But feign who will the slumber cunningly;
I pass it by to when I wakГўВҖВҷd, and tell
How suddenly a flash of splendour rent
The curtain of my sleep, and one cries out:
ГўВҖВңArise, what dost thou?ГўВҖВқ As the chosen three,
On TaborГўВҖВҷs mount, admitted to behold
The blossoming of that fair tree, whose fruit
Is coveted of angels, and doth make
Perpetual feast in heaven, to themselves
Returning at the word, whence deeper sleeps
Were broken, that they their tribe diminishГўВҖВҷd saw,
Both Moses and Elias gone, and changГўВҖВҷd
The stole their master wore: thus to myself
Returning, over me beheld I stand
The piteous one, who cross the stream had brought
My steps. ГўВҖВңAnd where,ГўВҖВқ all doubting, I exclaimГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңIs Beatrice?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңSee her,ГўВҖВқ she replied,
ГўВҖВңBeneath the fresh leaf seated on its root.
Behold thГўВҖВҷ associate choir that circles her.
The others, with a melody more sweet
And more profound, journeying to higher realms,
Upon the Gryphon tend.ГўВҖВқ If there her words
Were closГўВҖВҷd, I know not; but mine eyes had now
TaГўВҖВҷen view of her, by whom all other thoughts
Were barrГўВҖВҷd admittance. On the very ground
Alone she sat, as she had there been left
A guard upon the wain, which I beheld
Bound to the twyform beast. The seven nymphs
Did make themselves a cloister round about her,
And in their hands upheld those lights secure
From blast septentrion and the gusty south.

ГўВҖВңA little while thou shalt be forester here:
And citizen shalt be forever with me,
Of that true Rome, wherein Christ dwells a Roman
To profit the misguided world, keep now
Thine eyes upon the car; and what thou seest,
Take heed thou write, returning to that place.ГўВҖВқ

Thus Beatrice: at whose feet inclinГўВҖВҷd
Devout, at her behest, my thought and eyes,
I, as she bade, directed. Never fire,
With so swift motion, forth a stormy cloud
LeapГўВҖВҷd downward from the welkinГўВҖВҷs farthest bound,
As I beheld the bird of Jove descending
Pounce on the tree, and, as he rushГўВҖВҷd, the rind,
Disparting crush beneath him, buds much more
And leaflets. On the car with all his might
He struck, whence, staggering like a ship, it reelГўВҖВҷd,
At random drivГўВҖВҷn, to starboard now, oГўВҖВҷercome,
And now to larboard, by the vaulting waves.

Next springing up into the chariotГўВҖВҷs womb
A fox I saw, with hunger seeming pinГўВҖВҷd
Of all good food. But, for his ugly sins
The saintly maid rebuking him, away
ScampГўВҖВҷring he turnГўВҖВҷd, fast as his hide-bound corpse
Would bear him. Next, from whence before he came,
I saw the eagle dart into the hull
OГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ car, and leave it with his feathers linГўВҖВҷd;
And then a voice, like that which issues forth
From heart with sorrow rivГўВҖВҷd, did issue forth
From heavГўВҖВҷn, and, ГўВҖВңO poor bark of mine!ГўВҖВқ it cried,
ГўВҖВңHow badly art thou freighted!ГўВҖВқ Then, it seemГўВҖВҷd,
That the earth openГўВҖВҷd between either wheel,
And I beheld a dragon issue thence,
That through the chariot fixГўВҖВҷd his forked train;
And like a wasp that draggeth back the sting,
So drawing forth his baleful train, he draggГўВҖВҷd
Part of the bottom forth, and went his way
Exulting. What remainГўВҖВҷd, as lively turf
With green herb, so did clothe itself with plumes,
Which haply had with purpose chaste and kind
Been offerГўВҖВҷd; and therewith were clothГўВҖВҷd the wheels,
Both one and other, and the beam, so quickly
A sigh were not breathГўВҖВҷd sooner. Thus transformГўВҖВҷd,
The holy structure, through its several parts,
Did put forth heads, three on the beam, and one
On every side; the first like oxen hornГўВҖВҷd,
But with a single horn upon their front
The four. Like monster sight hath never seen.
OГўВҖВҷer it methought there sat, secure as rock
On mountainГўВҖВҷs lofty top, a shameless whore,
Whose ken rovГўВҖВҷd loosely round her. At her side,
As ГўВҖВҷt were that none might bear her off, I saw
A giant stand; and ever, and anon
They mingled kisses. But, her lustful eyes
Chancing on me to wander, that fell minion
ScourgГўВҖВҷd her from head to foot all oГўВҖВҷer; then full
Of jealousy, and fierce with rage, unloosГўВҖВҷd
The monster, and draggГўВҖВҷd on, so far across
The forest, that from me its shades alone
Shielded the harlot and the new-formГўВҖВҷd brute.




CANTO XXXIII


ГўВҖВңThe heathen, Lord! are come!ГўВҖВқ responsive thus,
The trinal now, and now the virgin band
Quaternion, their sweet psalmody began,
Weeping; and Beatrice listenГўВҖВҷd, sad
And sighing, to the songГўВҖВҷ, in such a mood,
That Mary, as she stood beside the cross,
Was scarce more changГўВҖВҷd. But when they gave her place
To speak, then, risen upright on her feet,
She, with a colour glowing bright as fire,
Did answer: ГўВҖВңYet a little while, and ye
Shall see me not; and, my beloved sisters,
Again a little while, and ye shall see me.ГўВҖВқ

Before her then she marshallГўВҖВҷd all the seven,
And, beckГўВҖВҷning only motionГўВҖВҷd me, the dame,
And that remaining sage, to follow her.

So on she passГўВҖВҷd; and had not set, I ween,
Her tenth step to the ground, when with mine eyes
Her eyes encounterГўВҖВҷd; and, with visage mild,
ГўВҖВңSo mend thy pace,ГўВҖВқ she cried, ГўВҖВңthat if my words
Address thee, thou mayst still be aptly placГўВҖВҷd
To hear them.ГўВҖВқ Soon as duly to her side
I now had hastenГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңBrother!ГўВҖВқ she began,
ГўВҖВңWhy makГўВҖВҷst thou no attempt at questioning,
As thus we walk together?ГўВҖВқ Like to those
Who, speaking with too reverent an awe
Before their betters, draw not forth the voice
Alive unto their lips, befell me shell
That I in sounds imperfect thus began:
ГўВҖВңLady! what I have need of, that thou knowГўВҖВҷst,
And what will suit my need.ГўВҖВқ She answering thus:
ГўВҖВңOf fearfulness and shame, I will, that thou
Henceforth do rid thee: that thou speak no more,
As one who dreams. Thus far be taught of me:
The vessel, which thou sawГўВҖВҷst the serpent break,
Was and is not: let him, who hath the blame,
Hope not to scare GodГўВҖВҷs vengeance with a sop.
Without an heir for ever shall not be
That eagle, he, who left the chariot plumГўВҖВҷd,
Which monster made it first and next a prey.
Plainly I view, and therefore speak, the stars
EГўВҖВҷen now approaching, whose conjunction, free
From all impediment and bar, brings on
A season, in the which, one sent from God,
(Five hundred, five, and ten, do mark him out)
That foul one, and thГўВҖВҷ accomplice of her guilt,
The giant, both shall slay. And if perchance
My saying, dark as Themis or as Sphinx,
Fail to persuade thee, (since like them it foils
The intellect with blindness) yet ere long
Events shall be the Naiads, that will solve
This knotty riddle, and no damage light
On flock or field. Take heed; and as these words
By me are utterГўВҖВҷd, teach them even so
To those who live that life, which is a race
To death: and when thou writГўВҖВҷst them, keep in mind
Not to conceal how thou hast seen the plant,
That twice hath now been spoilГўВҖВҷd. This whoso robs,
This whoso plucks, with blasphemy of deed
Sins against God, who for his use alone
Creating hallowГўВҖВҷd it. For taste of this,
In pain and in desire, five thousand years
And upward, the first soul did yearn for him,
Who punishГўВҖВҷd in himself the fatal gust.

ГўВҖВңThy reason slumbers, if it deem this height
And summit thus inverted of the plant,
Without due cause: and were not vainer thoughts,
As ElsaГўВҖВҷs numbing waters, to thy soul,
And their fond pleasures had not dyed it dark
As Pyramus the mulberry, thou hadst seen,
In such momentous circumstance alone,
GodГўВҖВҷs equal justice morally implied
In the forbidden tree. But since I mark thee
In understanding hardenГўВҖВҷd into stone,
And, to that hardness, spotted too and stainГўВҖВҷd,
So that thine eye is dazzled at my word,
I will, that, if not written, yet at least
Painted thou take it in thee, for the cause,
That one brings home his staff inwreathГўВҖВҷd with palm.

I thus: ГўВҖВңAs wax by seal, that changeth not
Its impress, now is stampГўВҖВҷd my brain by thee.
But wherefore soars thy wishГўВҖВҷd-for speech so high
Beyond my sight, that loses it the more,
The more it strains to reach it?ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңTo the end
That thou mayst know,ГўВҖВқ she answerГўВҖВҷd straight, ГўВҖВңthe school,
That thou hast followГўВҖВҷd; and how far behind,
When following my discourse, its learning halts:
And mayst behold your art, from the divine
As distant, as the disagreement is
ГўВҖВҷTwixt earth and heavenГўВҖВҷs most high and rapturous orb.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI not remember,ГўВҖВқ I replied, ГўВҖВңthat eГўВҖВҷer
I was estrangГўВҖВҷd from thee, nor for such fault
Doth conscience chide me.ГўВҖВқ Smiling she returnГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңIf thou canst, not remember, call to mind
How lately thou hast drunk of LetheГўВҖВҷs wave;
And, sure as smoke doth indicate a flame,
In that forgetfulness itself conclude
Blame from thy alienated will incurrГўВҖВҷd.
From henceforth verily my words shall be
As naked as will suit them to appear
In thy unpractisГўВҖВҷd view.ГўВҖВқ More sparkling now,
And with retarded course the sun possessГўВҖВҷd
The circle of mid-day, that varies still
As thГўВҖВҷ aspect varies of each several clime,
When, as one, sent in vaward of a troop
For escort, pauses, if perchance he spy
Vestige of somewhat strange and rare: so pausГўВҖВҷd
The sevГўВҖВҷnfold band, arriving at the verge
Of a dun umbrage hoar, such as is seen,
Beneath green leaves and gloomy branches, oft
To overbrow a bleak and alpine cliff.
And, where they stood, before them, as it seemГўВҖВҷd,
Tigris and Euphrates both beheld,
Forth from one fountain issue; and, like friends,
Linger at parting. ГўВҖВңO enlightГўВҖВҷning beam!
O glory of our kind! beseech thee say
What water this, which from one source derivГўВҖВҷd
Itself removes to distance from itself?ГўВҖВқ

To such entreaty answer thus was made:
ГўВҖВңEntreat Matilda, that she teach thee this.ГўВҖВқ

And here, as one, who clears himself of blame
Imputed, the fair dame returnГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңOf me
He this and more hath learnt; and I am safe
That LetheГўВҖВҷs water hath not hid it from him.ГўВҖВқ

And Beatrice: ГўВҖВңSome more pressing care
That oft the memory ГўВҖВҷreeves, perchance hath made
His mindГўВҖВҷs eye dark. But lo! where Eunoe cows!
Lead thither; and, as thou art wont, revive
His fainting virtue.ГўВҖВқ As a courteous spirit,
That proffers no excuses, but as soon
As he hath token of anotherГўВҖВҷs will,
Makes it his own; when she had taГўВҖВҷen me, thus
The lovely maiden movГўВҖВҷd her on, and callГўВҖВҷd
To Statius with an air most lady-like:
ГўВҖВңCome thou with him.ГўВҖВқ Were further space allowГўВҖВҷd,
Then, Reader, might I sing, though but in part,
That beverage, with whose sweetness I had neГўВҖВҷer
Been sated. But, since all the leaves are full,
Appointed for this second strain, mine art
With warning bridle checks me. I returnГўВҖВҷd
From the most holy wave, regenerate,
If ГўВҖВҷen as new plants renewГўВҖВҷd with foliage new,
Pure and made apt for mounting to the stars.




PARADISE




CANTO I


His glory, by whose might all things are movГўВҖВҷd,
Pierces the universe, and in one part
Sheds more resplendence, elsewhere less. In heavГўВҖВҷn,
That largeliest of his light partakes, was I,
Witness of things, which to relate again
Surpasseth power of him who comes from thence;
For that, so near approaching its desire
Our intellect is to such depth absorbГўВҖВҷd,
That memory cannot follow. Nathless all,
That in my thoughts I of that sacred realm
Could store, shall now be matter of my song.

Benign Apollo! this last labour aid,
And make me such a vessel of thy worth,
As thy own laurel claims of me belovГўВҖВҷd.
Thus far hath one of steep ParnassusГўВҖВҷ brows
SufficГўВҖВҷd me; henceforth there is need of both
For my remaining enterprise Do thou
Enter into my bosom, and there breathe
So, as when Marsyas by thy hand was draggГўВҖВҷd
Forth from his limbs unsheathГўВҖВҷd. O power divine!
If thou to me of shine impart so much,
That of that happy realm the shadowГўВҖВҷd form
TracГўВҖВҷd in my thoughts I may set forth to view,
Thou shalt behold me of thy favourГўВҖВҷd tree
Come to the foot, and crown myself with leaves;
For to that honour thou, and my high theme
Will fit me. If but seldom, mighty Sire!
To grace his triumph gathers thence a wreath
Caesar or bard (more shame for human wills
DepravГўВҖВҷd) joy to the Delphic god must spring
From the Pierian foliage, when one breast
Is with such thirst inspirГўВҖВҷd. From a small spark
Great flame hath risen: after me perchance
Others with better voice may pray, and gain
From the Cirrhaean city answer kind.

Through diver passages, the worldГўВҖВҷs bright lamp
Rises to mortals, but through that which joins
Four circles with the threefold cross, in best
Course, and in happiest constellation set
He comes, and to the worldly wax best gives
Its temper and impression. Morning there,
Here eve was by almost such passage made;
And whiteness had oГўВҖВҷerspread that hemisphere,
Blackness the other part; when to the left
I saw Beatrice turnГўВҖВҷd, and on the sun
Gazing, as never eagle fixГўВҖВҷd his ken.
As from the first a second beam is wont
To issue, and reflected upwards rise,
EГўВҖВҷen as a pilgrim bent on his return,
So of her act, that through the eyesight passГўВҖВҷd
Into my fancy, mine was formГўВҖВҷd; and straight,
Beyond our mortal wont, I fixГўВҖВҷd mine eyes
Upon the sun. Much is allowed us there,
That here exceeds our powГўВҖВҷr; thanks to the place
Made for the dwelling of the human kind

I sufferГўВҖВҷd it not long, and yet so long
That I beheld it bickГўВҖВҷring sparks around,
As iron that comes boiling from the fire.
And suddenly upon the day appearГўВҖВҷd
A day new-risГўВҖВҷn, as he, who hath the power,
Had with another sun bedeckГўВҖВҷd the sky.

Her eyes fast fixГўВҖВҷd on the eternal wheels,
Beatrice stood unmovГўВҖВҷd; and I with ken
FixГўВҖВҷd upon her, from upward gaze removГўВҖВҷd
At her aspect, such inwardly became
As Glaucus, when he tasted of the herb,
That made him peer among the ocean gods;
Words may not tell of that transhuman change:
And therefore let the example serve, though weak,
For those whom grace hath better proof in store

If I were only what thou didst create,
Then newly, Love! by whom the heavГўВҖВҷn is rulГўВҖВҷd,
Thou knowГўВҖВҷst, who by thy light didst bear me up.
Whenas the wheel which thou dost ever guide,
Desired Spirit! with its harmony
TemperГўВҖВҷd of thee and measurГўВҖВҷd, charmГўВҖВҷd mine ear,
Then seemГўВҖВҷd to me so much of heavГўВҖВҷn to blaze
With the sunГўВҖВҷs flame, that rain or flood neГўВҖВҷer made
A lake so broad. The newness of the sound,
And that great light, inflamГўВҖВҷd me with desire,
Keener than eГўВҖВҷer was felt, to know their cause.

Whence she who saw me, clearly as myself,
To calm my troubled mind, before I askГўВҖВҷd,
OpenГўВҖВҷd her lips, and gracious thus began:
ГўВҖВңWith false imagination thou thyself
MakГўВҖВҷst dull, so that thou seest not the thing,
Which thou hadst seen, had that been shaken off.
Thou art not on the earth as thou believГўВҖВҷst;
For lightГўВҖВҷning scapГўВҖВҷd from its own proper place
NeГўВҖВҷer ran, as thou hast hither now returnГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

Although divested of my first-raisГўВҖВҷd doubt,
By those brief words, accompanied with smiles,
Yet in new doubt was I entangled more,
And said: ГўВҖВңAlready satisfied, I rest
From admiration deep, but now admire
How I above those lighter bodies rise.ГўВҖВқ

Whence, after uttГўВҖВҷrance of a piteous sigh,
She towГўВҖВҷrds me bent her eyes, with such a look,
As on her frenzied child a mother casts;
Then thus began: ГўВҖВңAmong themselves all things
Have order; and from hence the form, which makes
The universe resemble God. In this
The higher creatures see the printed steps
Of that eternal worth, which is the end
Whither the line is drawn. All natures lean,
In this their order, diversely, some more,
Some less approaching to their primal source.
Thus they to different havens are movГўВҖВҷd on
Through the vast sea of being, and each one
With instinct givГўВҖВҷn, that bears it in its course;
This to the lunar sphere directs the fire,
This prompts the hearts of mortal animals,
This the brute earth together knits, and binds.
Nor only creatures, void of intellect,
Are aimГўВҖВҷd at by this bow; but even those,
That have intelligence and love, are piercГўВҖВҷd.
That Providence, who so well orders all,
With her own light makes ever calm the heaven,
In which the substance, that hath greatest speed,
Is turnГўВҖВҷd: and thither now, as to our seat
PredestinГўВҖВҷd, we are carried by the force
Of that strong cord, that never looses dart,
But at fair aim and glad. Yet is it true,
That as ofttimes but ill accords the form
To the design of art, through sluggishness
Of unreplying matter, so this course
Is sometimes quitted by the creature, who
Hath power, directed thus, to bend elsewhere;
As from a cloud the fire is seen to fall,
From its original impulse warpГўВҖВҷd, to earth,
By vicious fondness. Thou no more admire
Thy soaring, (if I rightly deem,) than lapse
Of torrent downwards from a mountainГўВҖВҷs height.
There would in thee for wonder be more cause,
If, free of hindГўВҖВҷrance, thou hadst fixГўВҖВҷd thyself
Below, like fire unmoving on the earth.ГўВҖВқ

So said, she turnГўВҖВҷd toward the heavГўВҖВҷn her face.




CANTO II


All ye, who in small bark have following sailГўВҖВҷd,
Eager to listen, on the adventГўВҖВҷrous track
Of my proud keel, that singing cuts its way,
Backward return with speed, and your own shores
Revisit, nor put out to open sea,
Where losing me, perchance ye may remain
BewilderГўВҖВҷd in deep maze. The way I pass
NeГўВҖВҷer yet was run: Minerva breathes the gale,
Apollo guides me, and another Nine
To my rapt sight the arctic beams reveal.
Ye other few, who have outstretchГўВҖВҷd the neck.
Timely for food of angels, on which here
They live, yet never know satiety,
Through the deep brine ye fearless may put out
Your vessel, marking, well the furrow broad
Before you in the wave, that on both sides
Equal returns. Those, glorious, who passГўВҖВҷd oГўВҖВҷer
To Colchos, wonderГўВҖВҷd not as ye will do,
When they saw Jason following the plough.

The increate perpetual thirst, that draws
Toward the realm of GodГўВҖВҷs own form, bore us
Swift almost as the heaven ye behold.

Beatrice upward gazГўВҖВҷd, and I on her,
And in such space as on the notch a dart
Is placГўВҖВҷd, then loosenГўВҖВҷd flies, I saw myself
ArrivГўВҖВҷd, where wondГўВҖВҷrous thing engagГўВҖВҷd my sight.
Whence she, to whom no work of mine was hid,
Turning to me, with aspect glad as fair,
Bespake me: ГўВҖВңGratefully direct thy mind
To God, through whom to this first star we come.ГўВҖВқ

Me seemГўВҖВҷd as if a cloud had coverГўВҖВҷd us,
Translucent, solid, firm, and polishГўВҖВҷd bright,
Like adamant, which the sunГўВҖВҷs beam had smit
Within itself the ever-during pearl
ReceivГўВҖВҷd us, as the wave a ray of light
Receives, and rests unbroken. If I then
Was of corporeal frame, and it transcend
Our weaker thought, how one dimension thus
Another could endure, which needs must be
If body enter body, how much more
Must the desire inflame us to behold
That essence, which discovers by what means
God and our nature joinГўВҖВҷd! There will be seen
That which we hold through faith, not shown by proof,
But in itself intelligibly plain,
EГўВҖВҷen as the truth that man at first believes.

I answered: ГўВҖВңLady! I with thoughts devout,
Such as I best can frame, give thanks to Him,
Who hath removГўВҖВҷd me from the mortal world.
But tell, I pray thee, whence the gloomy spots
Upon this body, which below on earth
Give rise to talk of Cain in fabling quaint?ГўВҖВқ

She somewhat smilГўВҖВҷd, then spake: ГўВҖВңIf mortals err
In their opinion, when the key of sense
Unlocks not, surely wonderГўВҖВҷs weapon keen
Ought not to pierce thee; since thou findГўВҖВҷst, the wings
Of reason to pursue the sensesГўВҖВҷ flight
Are short. But what thy own thought is, declare.ГўВҖВқ

Then I: ГўВҖВңWhat various here above appears,
Is causГўВҖВҷd, I deem, by bodies dense or rare.ГўВҖВқ

She then resumГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңThou certainly wilt see
In falsehood thy belief oГўВҖВҷerwhelmГўВҖВҷd, if well
Thou listen to the arguments, which I
Shall bring to face it. The eighth sphere displays
Numberless lights, the which in kind and size
May be remarkГўВҖВҷd of different aspects;
If rare or dense of that were cause alone,
One single virtue then would be in all,
Alike distributed, or more, or less.
Different virtues needs must be the fruits
Of formal principles, and these, save one,
Will by thy reasoning be destroyГўВҖВҷd. Beside,
If rarity were of that dusk the cause,
Which thou inquirest, either in some part
That planet must throughout be void, nor fed
With its own matter; or, as bodies share
Their fat and leanness, in like manner this
Must in its volume change the leaves. The first,
If it were true, had through the sunГўВҖВҷs eclipse
Been manifested, by transparency
Of light, as through aught rare beside effusГўВҖВҷd.
But this is not. Therefore remains to see
The other cause: and if the other fall,
Erroneous so must prove what seemГўВҖВҷd to thee.
If not from side to side this rarity
Pass through, there needs must be a limit, whence
Its contrary no further lets it pass.
And hence the beam, that from without proceeds,
Must be pourГўВҖВҷd back, as colour comes, through glass
Reflected, which behind it lead conceals.
Now wilt thou say, that there of murkier hue
Than in the other part the ray is shown,
By being thence refracted farther back.
From this perplexity will free thee soon
Experience, if thereof thou trial make,
The fountain whence your arts derive their streame.
Three mirrors shalt thou take, and two remove
From thee alike, and more remote the third.
Betwixt the former pair, shall meet thine eyes;
Then turnГўВҖВҷd toward them, cause behind thy back
A light to stand, that on the three shall shine,
And thus reflected come to thee from all.
Though that beheld most distant do not stretch
A space so ample, yet in brightness thou
Will own it equaling the rest. But now,
As under snow the ground, if the warm ray
Smites it, remains dismantled of the hue
And cold, that coverГўВҖВҷd it before, so thee,
Dismantled in thy mind, I will inform
With light so lively, that the tremulous beam
Shall quiver where it falls. Within the heaven,
Where peace divine inhabits, circles round
A body, in whose virtue dies the being
Of all that it contains. The following heaven,
That hath so many lights, this being divides,
Through different essences, from it distinct,
And yet containГўВҖВҷd within it. The other orbs
Their separate distinctions variously
Dispose, for their own seed and produce apt.
Thus do these organs of the world proceed,
As thou beholdest now, from step to step,
Their influences from above deriving,
And thence transmitting downwards. Mark me well,
How through this passage to the truth I ford,
The truth thou lovГўВҖВҷst, that thou henceforth alone,
MayГўВҖВҷst know to keep the shallows, safe, untold.

ГўВҖВңThe virtue and motion of the sacred orbs,
As mallet by the workmanГўВҖВҷs hand, must needs
By blessed movers be inspirГўВҖВҷd. This heaven,
Made beauteous by so many luminaries,
From the deep spirit, that moves its circling sphere,
Its image takes an impress as a seal:
And as the soul, that dwells within your dust,
Through members different, yet together formГўВҖВҷd,
In different powГўВҖВҷrs resolves itself; eГўВҖВҷen so
The intellectual efficacy unfolds
Its goodness multiplied throughout the stars;
On its own unity revolving still.
Different virtue compact different
Makes with the precious body it enlivens,
With which it knits, as life in you is knit.
From its original nature full of joy,
The virtue mingled through the body shines,
As joy through pupil of the living eye.
From hence proceeds, that which from light to light
Seems different, and not from dense or rare.
This is the formal cause, that generates
ProportionГўВҖВҷd to its power, the dusk or clear.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO III


That sun, which erst with love my bosom warmГўВҖВҷd
Had of fair truth unveilГўВҖВҷd the sweet aspect,
By proof of right, and of the false reproof;
And I, to own myself convincГўВҖВҷd and free
Of doubt, as much as needed, raisГўВҖВҷd my head
Erect for speech. But soon a sight appearГўВҖВҷd,
Which, so intent to mark it, held me fixГўВҖВҷd,
That of confession I no longer thought.

As through translucent and smooth glass, or wave
Clear and unmovГўВҖВҷd, and flowing not so deep
As that its bed is dark, the shape returns
So faint of our impicturГўВҖВҷd lineaments,
That on white forehead set a pearl as strong
Comes to the eye: such saw I many a face,
All stretchГўВҖВҷd to speak, from whence I straight conceivГўВҖВҷd
Delusion opposite to that, which raisГўВҖВҷd
Between the man and fountain, amorous flame.

Sudden, as I perceivГўВҖВҷd them, deeming these
Reflected semblances to see of whom
They were, I turnГўВҖВҷd mine eyes, and nothing saw;
Then turnГўВҖВҷd them back, directed on the light
Of my sweet guide, who smiling shot forth beams
From her celestial eyes. ГўВҖВңWonder not thou,ГўВҖВқ
She cryГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңat this my smiling, when I see
Thy childish judgment; since not yet on truth
It rests the foot, but, as it still is wont,
Makes thee fall back in unsound vacancy.
True substances are these, which thou beholdГўВҖВҷst,
Hither through failure of their vow exilГўВҖВҷd.
But speak thou with them; listen, and believe,
That the true light, which fills them with desire,
Permits not from its beams their feet to stray.ГўВҖВқ

Straight to the shadow which for converse seemГўВҖВҷd
Most earnest, I addressed me, and began,
As one by over-eagerness perplexГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңO spirit, born for joy! who in the rays
Of life eternal, of that sweetness knowГўВҖВҷst
The flavour, which, not tasted, passes far
All apprehension, me it well would please,
If thou wouldst tell me of thy name, and this
Your station here.ГўВҖВқ Whence she, with kindness prompt,
And eyes glistГўВҖВҷning with smiles: ГўВҖВңOur charity,
To any wish by justice introducГўВҖВҷd,
Bars not the door, no more than she above,
Who would have all her court be like herself.
I was a virgin sister in the earth;
And if thy mind observe me well, this form,
With such addition gracГўВҖВҷd of loveliness,
Will not conceal me long, but thou wilt know
Piccarda, in the tardiest sphere thus placГўВҖВҷd,
Here ГўВҖВҷmid these other blessed also blest.
Our hearts, whose high affections burn alone
With pleasure, from the Holy Spirit conceivГўВҖВҷd,
Admitted to his order dwell in joy.
And this condition, which appears so low,
Is for this cause assignГўВҖВҷd us, that our vows
Were in some part neglected and made void.ГўВҖВқ

Whence I to her replied: ГўВҖВңSomething divine
Beams in your countenance, wondГўВҖВҷrous fair,
From former knowledge quite transmuting you.
Therefore to recollect was I so slow.
But what thou sayst hath to my memory
Given now such aid, that to retrace your forms
Is easier. Yet inform me, ye, who here
Are happy, long ye for a higher place
More to behold, and more in love to dwell?ГўВҖВқ

She with those other spirits gently smilГўВҖВҷd,
Then answerГўВҖВҷd with such gladness, that she seemГўВҖВҷd
With loveГўВҖВҷs first flame to glow: ГўВҖВңBrother! our will
Is in composure settled by the power
Of charity, who makes us will alone
What we possess, and nought beyond desire;
If we should wish to be exalted more,
Then must our wishes jar with the high will
Of him, who sets us here, which in these orbs
Thou wilt confess not possible, if here
To be in charity must needs befall,
And if her nature well thou contemplate.
Rather it is inherent in this state
Of blessedness, to keep ourselves within
The divine will, by which our wills with his
Are one. So that as we from step to step
Are placГўВҖВҷd throughout this kingdom, pleases all,
EГўВҖВҷen as our King, who in us plants his will;
And in his will is our tranquillity;
It is the mighty ocean, whither tends
Whatever it creates and nature makes.ГўВҖВқ

Then saw I clearly how each spot in heavГўВҖВҷn
Is Paradise, though with like gracious dew
The supreme virtue showГўВҖВҷr not over all.

But as it chances, if one sort of food
Hath satiated, and of another still
The appetite remains, that this is askГўВҖВҷd,
And thanks for that returnГўВҖВҷd; eГўВҖВҷen so did I
In word and motion, bent from her to learn
What web it was, through which she had not drawn
The shuttle to its point. She thus began:
ГўВҖВңExalted worth and perfectness of life
The Lady higher up enshrine in heaven,
By whose pure laws upon your nether earth
The robe and veil they wear, to that intent,
That eГўВҖВҷen till death they may keep watch or sleep
With their great bridegroom, who accepts each vow,
Which to his gracious pleasure love conforms.
from the world, to follow her, when young
EscapГўВҖВҷd; and, in her vesture mantling me,
Made promise of the way her sect enjoins.
Thereafter men, for ill than good more apt,
Forth snatchГўВҖВҷd me from the pleasant cloisterГўВҖВҷs pale.
God knows how after that my life was framГўВҖВҷd.
This other splendid shape, which thou beholdst
At my right side, burning with all the light
Of this our orb, what of myself I tell
May to herself apply. From her, like me
A sister, with like violence were torn
The saintly folds, that shaded her fair brows.
EГўВҖВҷen when she to the world again was brought
In spite of her own will and better wont,
Yet not for that the bosomГўВҖВҷs inward veil
Did she renounce. This is the luminary
Of mighty Constance, who from that loud blast,
Which blew the second over SuabiaГўВҖВҷs realm,
That power producГўВҖВҷd, which was the third and last.ГўВҖВқ

She ceasГўВҖВҷd from further talk, and then began
ГўВҖВңAve MariaГўВҖВқ singing, and with that song
VanishГўВҖВҷd, as heavy substance through deep wave.

Mine eye, that far as it was capable,
Pursued her, when in dimness she was lost,
TurnГўВҖВҷd to the mark where greater want impellГўВҖВҷd,
And bent on Beatrice all its gaze.
But she as lightГўВҖВҷning beamГўВҖВҷd upon my looks:
So that the sight sustainГўВҖВҷd it not at first.
Whence I to question her became less prompt.




CANTO IV


Between two kinds of food, both equally
Remote and tempting, first a man might die
Of hunger, ere he one could freely choose.
EГўВҖВҷen so would stand a lamb between the maw
Of two fierce wolves, in dread of both alike:
EГўВҖВҷen so between two deer a dog would stand,
Wherefore, if I was silent, fault nor praise
I to myself impute, by equal doubts
Held in suspense, since of necessity
It happenГўВҖВҷd. Silent was I, yet desire
Was painted in my looks; and thus I spake
My wish more earnestly than language could.

As Daniel, when the haughty king he freed
From ire, that spurrГўВҖВҷd him on to deeds unjust
And violent; so lookГўВҖВҷd Beatrice then.

ГўВҖВңWell I discern,ГўВҖВқ she thus her words addressГўВҖВҷd,
ГўВҖВңHow contrary desires each way constrain thee,
So that thy anxious thought is in itself
Bound up and stifled, nor breathes freely forth.
Thou arguest; if the good intent remain;
What reason that anotherГўВҖВҷs violence
Should stint the measure of my fair desert?

ГўВҖВңCause too thou findst for doubt, in that it seems,
That spirits to the stars, as Plato deemГўВҖВҷd,
Return. These are the questions which thy will
Urge equally; and therefore I the first
Of that will treat which hath the more of gall.
Of seraphim he who is most enskyГўВҖВҷd,
Moses and Samuel, and either John,
Choose which thou wilt, nor even MaryГўВҖВҷs self,
Have not in any other heavГўВҖВҷn their seats,
Than have those spirits which so late thou sawГўВҖВҷst;
Nor more or fewer years exist; but all
Make the first circle beauteous, diversely
Partaking of sweet life, as more or less
Afflation of eternal bliss pervades them.
Here were they shown thee, not that fate assigns
This for their sphere, but for a sign to thee
Of that celestial furthest from the height.
Thus needs, that ye may apprehend, we speak:
Since from things sensible alone ye learn
That, which digested rightly after turns
To intellectual. For no other cause
The scripture, condescending graciously
To your perception, hands and feet to God
Attributes, nor so means: and holy church
Doth represent with human countenance
Gabriel, and Michael, and him who made
Tobias whole. Unlike what here thou seest,
The judgment of Timaeus, who affirms
Each soul restorГўВҖВҷd to its particular star,
Believing it to have been taken thence,
When nature gave it to inform her mold:
Since to appearance his intention is
EГўВҖВҷen what his words declare: or else to shun
Derision, haply thus he hath disguisГўВҖВҷd
His true opinion. If his meaning be,
That to the influencing of these orbs revert
The honour and the blame in human acts,
Perchance he doth not wholly miss the truth.
This principle, not understood aright,
Erewhile perverted well nigh all the world;
So that it fell to fabled names of Jove,
And Mercury, and Mars. That other doubt,
Which moves thee, is less harmful; for it brings
No peril of removing thee from me.

ГўВҖВңThat, to the eye of man, our justice seems
Unjust, is argument for faith, and not
For heretic declension. To the end
This truth may stand more clearly in your view,
I will content thee even to thy wish

ГўВҖВңIf violence be, when that which suffers, nought
Consents to that which forceth, not for this
These spirits stood exculpate. For the will,
That will not, still survives unquenchГўВҖВҷd, and doth
As nature doth in fire, thoГўВҖВҷ violence
Wrest it a thousand times; for, if it yield
Or more or less, so far it follows force.
And thus did these, whom they had power to seek
The hallowГўВҖВҷd place again. In them, had will
Been perfect, such as once upon the bars
Held Laurence firm, or wrought in Scaevola
To his own hand remorseless, to the path,
Whence they were drawn, their steps had hastenГўВҖВҷd back,
When liberty returnГўВҖВҷd: but in too few
Resolve so steadfast dwells. And by these words
If duly weighГўВҖВҷd, that argument is void,
Which oft might have perplexГўВҖВҷd thee still. But now
Another question thwarts thee, which to solve
Might try thy patience without better aid.
I have, no doubt, instillГўВҖВҷd into thy mind,
That blessed spirit may not lie; since near
The source of primal truth it dwells for aye:
And thou mightГўВҖВҷst after of Piccarda learn
That Constance held affection to the veil;
So that she seems to contradict me here.
Not seldom, brother, it hath chancГўВҖВҷd for men
To do what they had gladly left undone,
Yet to shun peril they have done amiss:
EГўВҖВҷen as Alcmaeon, at his fatherГўВҖВҷs suit
Slew his own mother, so made pitiless
Not to lose pity. On this point bethink thee,
That force and will are blended in such wise
As not to make theГўВҖВҷ offence excusable.
Absolute will agrees not to the wrong,
That inasmuch as there is fear of woe
From non-compliance, it agrees. Of will
Thus absolute Piccarda spake, and I
Of thГўВҖВҷ other; so that both have truly said.ГўВҖВқ

Such was the flow of that pure rill, that wellГўВҖВҷd
From forth the fountain of all truth; and such
The rest, that to my wondГўВҖВҷring thoughts I found.

ГўВҖВңO thou of primal love the prime delight!
Goddess!ГўВҖВқ I straight replyГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңwhose lively words
Still shed new heat and vigour through my soul!
Affection fails me to requite thy grace
With equal sum of gratitude: be his
To recompense, who sees and can reward thee.
Well I discern, that by that truth alone
EnlightenГўВҖВҷd, beyond which no truth may roam,
Our mind can satisfy her thirst to know:
Therein she resteth, eГўВҖВҷen as in his lair
The wild beast, soon as she hath reachГўВҖВҷd that bound,
And she hath power to reach it; else desire
Were given to no end. And thence doth doubt
Spring, like a shoot, around the stock of truth;
And it is nature which from height to height
On to the summit prompts us. This invites,
This doth assure me, lady, revГўВҖВҷrently
To ask thee of other truth, that yet
Is dark to me. I fain would know, if man
By other works well done may so supply
The failure of his vows, that in your scale
They lack not weight.ГўВҖВқ I spake; and on me straight
Beatrice lookГўВҖВҷd with eyes that shot forth sparks
Of love celestial in such copious stream,
That, virtue sinking in me overpowerГўВҖВҷd,
I turnГўВҖВҷd, and downward bent confusГўВҖВҷd my sight.




CANTO V


ГўВҖВңIf beyond earthly wont, the flame of love
Illume me, so that I oГўВҖВҷercome thy power
Of vision, marvel not: but learn the cause
In that perfection of the sight, which soon
As apprehending, hasteneth on to reach
The good it apprehends. I well discern,
How in thine intellect already shines
The light eternal, which to view alone
NeГўВҖВҷer fails to kindle love; and if aught else
Your love seduces, ГўВҖВҷt is but that it shows
Some ill-markГўВҖВҷd vestige of that primal beam.

ГўВҖВңThis wouldГўВҖВҷst thou know, if failure of the vow
By other service may be so supplied,
As from self-question to assure the soul.ГўВҖВқ

Thus she her words, not heedless of my wish,
Began; and thus, as one who breaks not off
Discourse, continued in her saintly strain.
ГўВҖВңSupreme of gifts, which God creating gave
Of his free bounty, sign most evident
Of goodness, and in his account most prizГўВҖВҷd,
Was liberty of will, the boon wherewith
All intellectual creatures, and them sole
He hath endowГўВҖВҷd. Hence now thou mayst infer
Of what high worth the vow, which so is framГўВҖВҷd
That when man offers, God well-pleasГўВҖВҷd accepts;
For in the compact between God and him,
This treasure, such as I describe it to thee,
He makes the victim, and of his own act.
What compensation therefore may he find?
If that, whereof thou hast oblation made,
By using well thou thinkГўВҖВҷst to consecrate,
Thou wouldГўВҖВҷst of theft do charitable deed.
Thus I resolve thee of the greater point.

ГўВҖВңBut forasmuch as holy church, herein
Dispensing, seems to contradict the truth
I have discoverГўВҖВҷd to thee, yet behooves
Thou rest a little longer at the board,
Ere the crude aliment, which thou hast taken,
Digested fitly to nutrition turn.
Open thy mind to what I now unfold,
And give it inward keeping. Knowledge comes
Of learning well retainГўВҖВҷd, unfruitful else.

ГўВҖВңThis sacrifice in essence of two things
Consisteth; one is that, whereof ГўВҖВҷt is made,
The covenant the other. For the last,
It neГўВҖВҷer is cancellГўВҖВҷd if not kept: and hence
I spake erewhile so strictly of its force.
For this it was enjoinГўВҖВҷd the Israelites,
Though leave were givГўВҖВҷn them, as thou knowГўВҖВҷst, to change
The offering, still to offer. ThГўВҖВҷ other part,
The matter and the substance of the vow,
May well be such, to that without offence
It may for other substance be exchangГўВҖВҷd.
But at his own discretion none may shift
The burden on his shoulders, unreleasГўВҖВҷd
By either key, the yellow and the white.
Nor deem of any change, as less than vain,
If the last bond be not within the new
Included, as the quatre in the six.
No satisfaction therefore can be paid
For what so precious in the balance weighs,
That all in counterpoise must kick the beam.
Take then no vow at random: taГўВҖВҷen, with faith
Preserve it; yet not bent, as Jephthah once,
Blindly to execute a rash resolve,
Whom better it had suited to exclaim,
ГўВҖВҳI have done ill,ГўВҖВҷ than to redeem his pledge
By doing worse or, not unlike to him
In folly, that great leader of the Greeks:
Whence, on the alter, Iphigenia mournГўВҖВҷd
Her virgin beauty, and hath since made mourn
Both wise and simple, even all, who hear
Of so fell sacrifice. Be ye more staid,
O Christians, not, like feather, by each wind
Removable: nor think to cleanse ourselves
In every water. Either testament,
The old and new, is yours: and for your guide
The shepherd of the church let this suffice
To save you. When by evil lust enticГўВҖВҷd,
Remember ye be men, not senseless beasts;
Nor let the Jew, who dwelleth in your streets,
Hold you in mockГўВҖВҷry. Be not, as the lamb,
That, fickle wanton, leaves its motherГўВҖВҷs milk,
To dally with itself in idle play.ГўВҖВқ

Such were the words that Beatrice spake:
These ended, to that region, where the world
Is liveliest, full of fond desire she turnГўВҖВҷd.

Though mainly prompt new question to propose,
Her silence and changГўВҖВҷd look did keep me dumb.
And as the arrow, ere the cord is still,
Leapeth unto its mark; so on we sped
Into the second realm. There I beheld
The dame, so joyous enter, that the orb
Grew brighter at her smiles; and, if the star
Were movГўВҖВҷd to gladness, what then was my cheer,
Whom nature hath made apt for every change!

As in a quiet and clear lake the fish,
If aught approach them from without, do draw
Towards it, deeming it their food; so drew
Full more than thousand splendours towards us,
And in each one was heard: ГўВҖВңLo! one arrivГўВҖВҷd
To multiply our loves!ГўВҖВқ and as each came
The shadow, streaming forth effulgence new,
WitnessГўВҖВҷd augmented joy. Here, reader! think,
If thou didst miss the sequel of my tale,
To know the rest how sorely thou wouldst crave;
And thou shalt see what vehement desire
PossessГўВҖВҷd me, as soon as these had met my view,
To know their state. ГўВҖВңO born in happy hour!
Thou to whom grace vouchsafes, or ere thy close
Of fleshly warfare, to behold the thrones
Of that eternal triumph, know to us
The light communicated, which through heaven
Expatiates without bound. Therefore, if aught
Thou of our beams wouldst borrow for thine aid,
Spare not; and of our radiance take thy fill.ГўВҖВқ

Thus of those piteous spirits one bespake me;
And Beatrice next: ГўВҖВңSay on; and trust
As unto gods!ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңHow in the light supreme
Thou harbourГўВҖВҷst, and from thence the virtue bringГўВҖВҷst,
That, sparkling in thine eyes, denotes thy joy,
l mark; but, who thou art, am still to seek;
Or wherefore, worthy spirit! for thy lot
This sphere assignГўВҖВҷd, that oft from mortal ken
Is veilГўВҖВҷd by othersГўВҖВҷ beams.ГўВҖВқ I said, and turnГўВҖВҷd
Toward the lustre, that with greeting, kind
Erewhile had hailГўВҖВҷd me. Forthwith brighter far
Than erst, it waxГўВҖВҷd: and, as himself the sun
Hides through excess of light, when his warm gaze
Hath on the mantle of thick vapours preyГўВҖВҷd;
Within its proper ray the saintly shape
Was, through increase of gladness, thus concealГўВҖВҷd;
And, shrouded so in splendour answerГўВҖВҷd me,
EГўВҖВҷen as the tenour of my song declares.




CANTO VI


ГўВҖВңAfter that Constantine the eagle turnГўВҖВҷd
Against the motions of the heavГўВҖВҷn, that rollГўВҖВҷd
Consenting with its course, when he of yore,
LaviniaГўВҖВҷs spouse, was leader of the flight,
A hundred years twice told and more, his seat
At EuropeГўВҖВҷs extreme point, the bird of Jove
Held, near the mountains, whence he issued first.
There, under shadow of his sacred plumes
Swaying the world, till through successive hands
To mine he came devolvГўВҖВҷd. Caesar I was,
And am Justinian; destinГўВҖВҷd by the will
Of that prime love, whose influence I feel,
From vain excess to clear thГўВҖВҷ encumberГўВҖВҷd laws.
Or ere that work engagГўВҖВҷd me, I did hold
ChristГўВҖВҷs nature merely human, with such faith
Contented. But the blessed Agapete,
Who was chief shepherd, he with warning voice
To the true faith recallГўВҖВҷd me. I believГўВҖВҷd
His words: and what he taught, now plainly see,
As thou in every contradiction seest
The true and false opposГўВҖВҷd. Soon as my feet
Were to the church reclaimГўВҖВҷd, to my great task,
By inspiration of GodГўВҖВҷs grace impellГўВҖВҷd,
I gave me wholly, and consignГўВҖВҷd mine arms
To Belisarius, with whom heavenГўВҖВҷs right hand
Was linkГўВҖВҷd in such conjointment, ГўВҖВҷt was a sign
That I should rest. To thy first question thus
I shape mine answer, which were ended here,
But that its tendency doth prompt perforce
To some addition; that thou well, mayst mark
What reason on each side they have to plead,
By whom that holiest banner is withstood,
Both who pretend its power and who oppose.
ГўВҖВңBeginning from that hour, when Pallas died
To give it rule, behold the valorous deeds
Have made it worthy reverence. Not unknown
To thee, how for three hundred years and more
It dwelt in Alba, up to those fell lists
Where for its sake were met the rival three;
Nor aught unknown to thee, which it achievГўВҖВҷd
Down to the SabinesГўВҖВҷ wrong to LucreceГўВҖВҷ woe,
With its sevГўВҖВҷn kings conquГўВҖВҷring the nation round;
Nor all it wrought, by Roman worthies home
ГўВҖВҷGainst Brennus and thГўВҖВҷ Epirot prince, and hosts
Of single chiefs, or states in league combinГўВҖВҷd
Of social warfare; hence Torquatus stern,
And Quintius namГўВҖВҷd of his neglected locks,
The Decii, and the Fabii hence acquirГўВҖВҷd
Their fame, which I with duteous zeal embalm.
By it the pride of Arab hordes was quellГўВҖВҷd,
When they led on by Hannibal oГўВҖВҷerpassГўВҖВҷd
The Alpine rocks, whence glide thy currents, Po!
Beneath its guidance, in their prime of days
Scipio and Pompey triumphГўВҖВҷd; and that hill,
Under whose summit thou didst see the light,
Rued its stern bearing. After, near the hour,
When heavГўВҖВҷn was minded that oГўВҖВҷer all the world
His own deep calm should brood, to CaesarГўВҖВҷs hand
Did Rome consign it; and what then it wrought
From Var unto the Rhine, saw IsereГўВҖВҷs flood,
Saw Loire and Seine, and every vale, that fills
The torrent Rhone. What after that it wrought,
When from Ravenna it came forth, and leapГўВҖВҷd
The Rubicon, was of so bold a flight,
That tongue nor pen may follow it. TowГўВҖВҷrds Spain
It wheelГўВҖВҷd its bands, then towГўВҖВҷrd Dyrrachium smote,
And on Pharsalia with so fierce a plunge,
EГўВҖВҷen the warm Nile was conscious to the pang;
Its native shores Antandros, and the streams
Of Simois revisited, and there
Where Hector lies; then ill for Ptolemy
His pennons shook again; lightning thence fell
On Juba; and the next upon your west,
At sound of the Pompeian trump, returnГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңWhat following and in its next bearerГўВҖВҷs gripe
It wrought, is now by Cassius and Brutus
BarkГўВҖВҷd off in hell, and by PerugiaГўВҖВҷs sons
And ModenaГўВҖВҷs was mournГўВҖВҷd. Hence weepeth still
Sad Cleopatra, who, pursued by it,
Took from the adder black and sudden death.
With him it ran eГўВҖВҷen to the Red Sea coast;
With him composГўВҖВҷd the world to such a peace,
That of his temple Janus barrГўВҖВҷd the door.

ГўВҖВңBut all the mighty standard yet had wrought,
And was appointed to perform thereafter,
Throughout the mortal kingdom which it swayГўВҖВҷd,
Falls in appearance dwindled and obscurГўВҖВҷd,
If one with steady eye and perfect thought
On the third Caesar look; for to his hands,
The living Justice, in whose breath I move,
Committed glory, eГўВҖВҷen into his hands,
To execute the vengeance of its wrath.

ГўВҖВңHear now and wonder at what next I tell.
After with Titus it was sent to wreak
Vengeance for vengeance of the ancient sin,
And, when the Lombard tooth, with fangs impure,
Did gore the bosom of the holy church,
Under its wings victorious, Charlemagne
Sped to her rescue. Judge then for thyself
Of those, whom I erewhile accusГўВҖВҷd to thee,
What they are, and how grievous their offending,
Who are the cause of all your ills. The one
Against the universal ensign rears
The yellow lilies, and with partial aim
That to himself the other arrogates:
So that ГўВҖВҷt is hard to see which more offends.
Be yours, ye Ghibellines, to veil your arts
Beneath another standard: ill is this
FollowГўВҖВҷd of him, who severs it and justice:
And let not with his Guelphs the new-crownГўВҖВҷd Charles
Assail it, but those talons hold in dread,
Which from a lion of more lofty port
Have rent the easing. Many a time ere now
The sons have for the sireГўВҖВҷs transgression wailГўВҖВҷd;
Nor let him trust the fond belief, that heavГўВҖВҷn
Will truck its armour for his lilied shield.

ГўВҖВңThis little star is furnishГўВҖВҷd with good spirits,
Whose mortal lives were busied to that end,
That honour and renown might wait on them:
And, when desires thus err in their intention,
True love must needs ascend with slacker beam.
But it is part of our delight, to measure
Our wages with the merit; and admire
The close proportion. Hence doth heavГўВҖВҷnly justice
Temper so evenly affection in us,
It neГўВҖВҷer can warp to any wrongfulness.
Of diverse voices is sweet music made:
So in our life the different degrees
Render sweet harmony among these wheels.

ГўВҖВңWithin the pearl, that now encloseth us,
Shines RomeoГўВҖВҷs light, whose goodly deed and fair
Met ill acceptance. But the Provencals,
That were his foes, have little cause for mirth.
Ill shapes that man his course, who makes his wrong
Of otherГўВҖВҷs worth. Four daughters were there born
To Raymond Berenger, and every one
Became a queen; and this for him did Romeo,
Though of mean state and from a foreign land.
Yet envious tongues incited him to ask
A reckoning of that just one, who returnГўВҖВҷd
Twelve fold to him for ten. Aged and poor
He parted thence: and if the world did know
The heart he had, begging his life by morsels,
ГўВҖВҷT would deem the praise, it yields him, scantly dealt.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO VII


ГўВҖВңHosanna Sanctus Deus Sabaoth
Superillustrans claritate tua
Felices ignes horum malahoth!ГўВҖВқ
Thus chanting saw I turn that substance bright
With fourfold lustre to its orb again,
Revolving; and the rest unto their dance
With it movГўВҖВҷd also; and like swiftest sparks,
In sudden distance from my sight were veilГўВҖВҷd.

Me doubt possessГўВҖВҷd, and ГўВҖВңSpeak,ГўВҖВқ it whisperГўВҖВҷd me,
ГўВҖВңSpeak, speak unto thy lady, that she quench
Thy thirst with drops of sweetness.ГўВҖВқ Yet blank awe,
Which lords it oГўВҖВҷer me, even at the sound
Of BeatriceГўВҖВҷs name, did bow me down
As one in slumber held. Not long that mood
Beatrice sufferГўВҖВҷd: she, with such a smile,
As might have made one blest amid the flames,
Beaming upon me, thus her words began:
ГўВҖВңThou in thy thought art pondГўВҖВҷring (as I deem),
And what I deem is truth how just revenge
Could be with justice punishГўВҖВҷd: from which doubt
I soon will free thee; so thou mark my words;
For they of weighty matter shall possess thee.

ГўВҖВңThat man, who was unborn, himself condemnГўВҖВҷd,
And, in himself, all, who since him have livГўВҖВҷd,
His offspring: whence, below, the human kind
Lay sick in grievous error many an age;
Until it pleasГўВҖВҷd the Word of God to come
Amongst them down, to his own person joining
The nature, from its Maker far estrangГўВҖВҷd,
By the mere act of his eternal love.
Contemplate here the wonder I unfold.
The nature with its Maker thus conjoinГўВҖВҷd,
Created first was blameless, pure and good;
But through itself alone was driven forth
From Paradise, because it had eschewГўВҖВҷd
The way of truth and life, to evil turnГўВҖВҷd.
NeГўВҖВҷer then was penalty so just as that
Inflicted by the cross, if thou regard
The nature in assumption doomГўВҖВҷd: neГўВҖВҷer wrong
So great, in reference to him, who took
Such nature on him, and endurГўВҖВҷd the doom.
God therefore and the Jews one sentence pleased:
So different effects flowГўВҖВҷd from one act,
And heavГўВҖВҷn was openГўВҖВҷd, though the earth did quake.
Count it not hard henceforth, when thou dost hear
That a just vengeance was by righteous court
Justly revengГўВҖВҷd. But yet I see thy mind
By thought on thought arising sore perplexГўВҖВҷd,
And with how vehement desire it asks
Solution of the maze. What I have heard,
Is plain, thou sayst: but wherefore God this way
For our redemption chose, eludes my search.

ГўВҖВңBrother! no eye of man not perfected,
Nor fully ripenГўВҖВҷd in the flame of love,
May fathom this decree. It is a mark,
In sooth, much aimГўВҖВҷd at, and but little kennГўВҖВҷd:
And I will therefore show thee why such way
Was worthiest. The celestial love, that spume
All envying in its bounty, in itself
With such effulgence blazeth, as sends forth
All beauteous things eternal. What distils
Immediate thence, no end of being knows,
Bearing its seal immutably impressГўВҖВҷd.
Whatever thence immediate falls, is free,
Free wholly, uncontrollable by power
Of each thing new: by such conformity
More grateful to its author, whose bright beams,
Though all partake their shining, yet in those
Are liveliest, which resemble him the most.
These tokens of pre-eminence on man
Largely bestowГўВҖВҷd, if any of them fail,
He needs must forfeit his nobility,
No longer stainless. Sin alone is that,
Which doth disfranchise him, and make unlike
To the chief good; for that its light in him
Is darkenГўВҖВҷd. And to dignity thus lost
Is no return; unless, where guilt makes void,
He for ill pleasure pay with equal pain.
Your nature, which entirely in its seed
TrangressГўВҖВҷd, from these distinctions fell, no less
Than from its state in Paradise; nor means
Found of recovery (search all methods out
As strickly as thou may) save one of these,
The only fords were left through which to wade,
Either that God had of his courtesy
ReleasГўВҖВҷd him merely, or else man himself
For his own folly by himself atonГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңFix now thine eye, intently as thou canst,
On thГўВҖВҷ everlasting counsel, and explore,
Instructed by my words, the dread abyss.

ГўВҖВңMan in himself had ever lackГўВҖВҷd the means
Of satisfaction, for he could not stoop
Obeying, in humility so low,
As high he, disobeying, thought to soar:
And for this reason he had vainly tried
Out of his own sufficiency to pay
The rigid satisfaction. Then behooved
That God should by his own ways lead him back
Unto the life, from whence he fell, restorГўВҖВҷd:
By both his ways, I mean, or one alone.
But since the deed is ever prizГўВҖВҷd the more,
The more the doerГўВҖВҷs good intent appears,
Goodness celestial, whose broad signature
Is on the universe, of all its ways
To raise ye up, was fain to leave out none,
Nor aught so vast or so magnificent,
Either for him who gave or who receivГўВҖВҷd
Between the last night and the primal day,
Was or can be. For God more bounty showГўВҖВҷd.
Giving himself to make man capable
Of his return to life, than had the terms
Been mere and unconditional release.
And for his justice, every method else
Were all too scant, had not the Son of God
Humbled himself to put on mortal flesh.

ГўВҖВңNow, to fulfil each wish of thine, remains
I somewhat further to thy view unfold.
That thou mayst see as clearly as myself.

ГўВҖВңI see, thou sayst, the air, the fire I see,
The earth and water, and all things of them
Compounded, to corruption turn, and soon
Dissolve. Yet these were also things create,
Because, if what were told me, had been true
They from corruption had been therefore free.

ГўВҖВңThe angels, O my brother! and this clime
Wherein thou art, impassible and pure,
I call created, as indeed they are
In their whole being. But the elements,
Which thou hast namГўВҖВҷd, and what of them is made,
Are by created virtueГўВҖВҷ informГўВҖВҷd: create
Their substance, and create theГўВҖВҷ informing virtue
In these bright stars, that round them circling move
The soul of every brute and of each plant,
The ray and motion of the sacred lights,
With complex potency attract and turn.
But this our life theГўВҖВҷ eternal good inspires
Immediate, and enamours of itself;
So that our wishes rest for ever here.

ГўВҖВңAnd hence thou mayst by inference conclude
Our resurrection certain, if thy mind
Consider how the human flesh was framГўВҖВҷd,
When both our parents at the first were made.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO VIII


The world was in its day of peril dark
Wont to believe the dotage of fond love
From the fair Cyprian deity, who rolls
In her third epicycle, shed on men
By stream of potent radiance: therefore they
Of elder time, in their old error blind,
Not her alone with sacrifice adorГўВҖВҷd
And invocation, but like honours paid
To Cupid and Dione, deemГўВҖВҷd of them
Her mother, and her son, him whom they feignГўВҖВҷd
To sit in DidoГўВҖВҷs bosom: and from her,
Whom I have sung preluding, borrowГўВҖВҷd they
The appellation of that star, which views,
Now obvious and now averse, the sun.

I was not ware that I was wafted up
Into its orb; but the new loveliness
That gracГўВҖВҷd my lady, gave me ample proof
That we had entered there. And as in flame
A sparkle is distinct, or voice in voice
DiscernГўВҖВҷd, when one its even tenour keeps,
The other comes and goes; so in that light
I other luminaries saw, that coursГўВҖВҷd
In circling motion rapid more or less,
As their eternal phases each impels.

Never was blast from vapour charged with cold,
Whether invisible to eye or no,
Descended with such speed, it had not seemГўВҖВҷd
To linger in dull tardiness, comparГўВҖВҷd
To those celestial lights, that towГўВҖВҷrds us came,
Leaving the circuit of their joyous ring,
Conducted by the lofty seraphim.
And after them, who in the van appearГўВҖВҷd,
Such an hosanna sounded, as hath left
Desire, neГўВҖВҷer since extinct in me, to hear
RenewГўВҖВҷd the strain. Then parting from the rest
One near us drew, and sole began: ГўВҖВңWe all
Are ready at thy pleasure, well disposГўВҖВҷd
To do thee gentle service. We are they,
To whom thou in the world erewhile didst Sing
ГўВҖВҳO ye! whose intellectual ministry
Moves the third heaven!ГўВҖВҷ and in one orb we roll,
One motion, one impulse, with those who rule
Princedoms in heaven; yet are of love so full,
That to please thee ГўВҖВҷt will be as sweet to rest.ГўВҖВқ

After mine eyes had with meek reverence
Sought the celestial guide, and were by her
AssurГўВҖВҷd, they turnГўВҖВҷd again unto the light
Who had so largely promisГўВҖВҷd, and with voice
That bare the lively pressure of my zeal,
ГўВҖВңTell who ye are,ГўВҖВқ I cried. Forthwith it grew
In size and splendour, through augmented joy;
And thus it answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңA short date below
The world possessГўВҖВҷd me. Had the time been more,
Much evil, that will come, had never chancГўВҖВҷd.
My gladness hides thee from me, which doth shine
Around, and shroud me, as an animal
In its own silk unswathГўВҖВҷd. Thou lovГўВҖВҷdst me well,
And hadГўВҖВҷst good cause; for had my sojourning
Been longer on the earth, the love I bare thee
Had put forth more than blossoms. The left bank,
That Rhone, when he hath mixГўВҖВҷd with Sorga, laves.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIn me its lord expected, and that horn
Of fair Ausonia, with its boroughs old,
Bari, and Croton, and Gaeta pilГўВҖВҷd,
From where the Trento disembogues his waves,
With Verde mingled, to the salt sea-flood.
Already on my temples beamГўВҖВҷd the crown,
Which gave me sovГўВҖВҷreignty over the land
By Danube washГўВҖВҷd, whenas he strays beyond
The limits of his German shores. The realm,
Where, on the gulf by stormy Eurus lashГўВҖВҷd,
Betwixt Pelorus and Pachynian heights,
The beautiful Trinacria lies in gloom
(Not through Typhaeus, but the vapГўВҖВҷry cloud
Bituminous upsteamГўВҖВҷd), THAT too did look
To have its scepter wielded by a race
Of monarchs, sprung through me from Charles and Rodolph;
had not ill lording which doth spirit up
The people ever, in Palermo raisГўВҖВҷd
The shout of ГўВҖВҳdeath,ГўВҖВҷ re-echoГўВҖВҷd loud and long.
Had but my brotherГўВҖВҷs foresight kennГўВҖВҷd as much,
He had been warier that the greedy want
Of Catalonia might not work his bale.
And truly need there is, that he forecast,
Or other for him, lest more freight be laid
On his already over-laden bark.
Nature in him, from bounty fallГўВҖВҷn to thrift,
Would ask the guard of braver arms, than such
As only care to have their coffers fillГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңMy liege, it doth enhance the joy thy words
Infuse into me, mighty as it is,
To think my gladness manifest to thee,
As to myself, who own it, when thou lookst
Into the source and limit of all good,
There, where thou markest that which thou dost speak,
Thence prizГўВҖВҷd of me the more. Glad thou hast made me.
Now make intelligent, clearing the doubt
Thy speech hath raised in me; for much I muse,
How bitter can spring up, when sweet is sown.ГўВҖВқ

I thus inquiring; he forthwith replied:
ГўВҖВңIf I have power to show one truth, soon that
Shall face thee, which thy questioning declares
Behind thee now concealГўВҖВҷd. The Good, that guides
And blessed makes this realm, which thou dost mount,
Ordains its providence to be the virtue
In these great bodies: nor thГўВҖВҷ all perfect Mind
Upholds their nature merely, but in them
Their energy to save: for nought, that lies
Within the range of that unerring bow,
But is as level with the destinГўВҖВҷd aim,
As ever mark to arrowГўВҖВҷs point opposГўВҖВҷd.
Were it not thus, these heavens, thou dost visit,
Would their effect so work, it would not be
Art, but destruction; and this may not chance,
If thГўВҖВҷ intellectual powers, that move these stars,
Fail not, or who, first faulty made them fail.
Wilt thou this truth more clearly evidencГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқ

To whom I thus: ГўВҖВңIt is enough: no fear,
I see, lest nature in her part should tire.ГўВҖВқ

He straight rejoinГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңSay, were it worse for man,
If he livГўВҖВҷd not in fellowship on earth?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYea,ГўВҖВқ answerГўВҖВҷd I; ГўВҖВңnor here a reason needs.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd may that be, if different estates
Grow not of different duties in your life?
Consult your teacher, and he tells you ГўВҖВҳnoГўВҖВҷ.ГўВҖВқ

Thus did he come, deducing to this point,
And then concluded: ГўВҖВңFor this cause behooves,
The roots, from whence your operations come,
Must differ. Therefore one is Solon born;
Another, Xerxes; and Melchisidec
A third; and he a fourth, whose airy voyage
Cost him his son. In her circuitous course,
Nature, that is the seal to mortal wax,
Doth well her art, but no distinctions owns
ГўВҖВҷTwixt one or other household. Hence befalls
That Esau is so wide of Jacob: hence
Quirinus of so base a father springs,
He dates from Mars his lineage. Were it not
That providence celestial overrulГўВҖВҷd,
Nature, in generation, must the path
TracГўВҖВҷd by the generator, still pursue
Unswervingly. Thus place I in thy sight
That, which was late behind thee. But, in sign
Of more affection for thee, ГўВҖВҷt is my will
Thou wear this corollary. Nature ever
Finding discordant fortune, like all seed
Out of its proper climate, thrives but ill.
And were the world below content to mark
And work on the foundation nature lays,
It would not lack supply of excellence.
But ye perversely to religion strain
Him, who was born to gird on him the sword,
And of the fluent phrasemen make your king;
Therefore your steps have wanderГўВҖВҷd from the paths.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO IX


After solution of my doubt, thy Charles,
O fair Clemenza, of the treachery spake
That must befall his seed: but, ГўВҖВңTell it not,ГўВҖВқ
Said he, ГўВҖВңand let the destinГўВҖВҷd years come round.ГўВҖВқ
Nor may I tell thee more, save that the meed
Of sorrow well-deservГўВҖВҷd shall quit your wrongs.

And now the visage of that saintly light
Was to the sun, that fills it, turnГўВҖВҷd again,
As to the good, whose plenitude of bliss
Sufficeth all. O ye misguided souls!
Infatuate, who from such a good estrange
Your hearts, and bend your gaze on vanity,
Alas for you!ГўВҖВ”And lo! toward me, next,
Another of those splendent forms approachГўВҖВҷd,
That, by its outward brightГўВҖВҷning, testified
The will it had to pleasure me. The eyes
Of Beatrice, resting, as before,
Firmly upon me, manifested forth
Approval of my wish. ГўВҖВңAnd O,ГўВҖВқ I cried,
ГўВҖВңBlest spirit! quickly be my will performГўВҖВҷd;
And prove thou to me, that my inmost thoughts
I can reflect on thee.ГўВҖВқ Thereat the light,
That yet was new to me, from the recess,
Where it before was singing, thus began,
As one who joys in kindness: ГўВҖВңIn that part
Of the depravГўВҖВҷd Italian land, which lies
Between Rialto, and the fountain-springs
Of Brenta and of Piava, there doth rise,
But to no lofty eminence, a hill,
From whence erewhile a firebrand did descend,
That sorely sheet the region. From one root
I and it sprang; my name on earth Cunizza:
And here I glitter, for that by its light
This star oГўВҖВҷercame me. Yet I naught repine,
Nor grudge myself the cause of this my lot,
Which haply vulgar hearts can scarce conceive.

ГўВҖВңThis jewel, that is next me in our heaven,
Lustrous and costly, great renown hath left,
And not to perish, ere these hundred years
Five times absolve their round. Consider thou,
If to excel be worthy manГўВҖВҷs endeavour,
When such life may attend the first. Yet they
Care not for this, the crowd that now are girt
By Adice and Tagliamento, still
Impenitent, thoГўВҖВҷ scourgГўВҖВҷd. The hour is near,
When for their stubbornness at PaduaГўВҖВҷs marsh
The water shall be changГўВҖВҷd, that laves Vicena
And where Cagnano meets with Sile, one
Lords it, and bears his head aloft, for whom
The web is now a-warping. Feltro too
Shall sorrow for its godless shepherdГўВҖВҷs fault,
Of so deep stain, that never, for the like,
Was MaltaГўВҖВҷs bar unclosГўВҖВҷd. Too large should be
The skillet, that would hold FerraraГўВҖВҷs blood,
And wearied he, who ounce by ounce would weight it,
The which this priest, in show of party-zeal,
Courteous will give; nor will the gift ill suit
The countryГўВҖВҷs custom. We descry above,
Mirrors, ye call them thrones, from which to us
Reflected shine the judgments of our God:
Whence these our sayings we avouch for good.ГўВҖВқ

She ended, and appearГўВҖВҷd on other thoughts
Intent, re-entГўВҖВҷring on the wheel she late
Had left. That other joyance meanwhile waxГўВҖВҷd
A thing to marvel at, in splendour glowing,
Like choicest ruby stricken by the sun,
For, in that upper clime, effulgence comes
Of gladness, as here laughter: and below,
As the mind saddens, murkier grows the shade.

ГўВҖВңGod seeth all: and in him is thy sight,ГўВҖВқ
Said I, ГўВҖВңblest Spirit! Therefore will of his
Cannot to thee be dark. Why then delays
Thy voice to satisfy my wish untold,
That voice which joins the inexpressive song,
Pastime of heavГўВҖВҷn, the which those ardours sing,
That cowl them with six shadowing wings outspread?
I would not wait thy asking, wert thou known
To me, as thoroughly I to thee am known.ГўВҖВқ

He forthwith answГўВҖВҷring, thus his words began:
ГўВҖВңThe valleyГўВҖВҷ of waters, widest next to that
Which doth the earth engarland, shapes its course,
Between discordant shores, against the sun
Inward so far, it makes meridian there,
Where was before thГўВҖВҷ horizon. Of that vale
Dwelt I upon the shore, ГўВҖВҷtwixt EbroГўВҖВҷs stream
And MacraГўВҖВҷs, that divides with passage brief
Genoan bounds from Tuscan. East and west
Are nearly one to Begga and my land,
Whose haven erst was with its own blood warm.
Who knew my name were wont to call me Folco:
And I did bear impression of this heavГўВҖВҷn,
That now bears mine: for not with fiercer flame
GlowГўВҖВҷd BelusГўВҖВҷ daughter, injuring alike
Sichaeus and Creusa, than did I,
Long as it suited the unripenГўВҖВҷd down
That fledgГўВҖВҷd my cheek: nor she of Rhodope,
That was beguiled of Demophoon;
Nor JoveГўВҖВҷs son, when the charms of Iole
Were shrinГўВҖВҷd within his heart. And yet there hides
No sorrowful repentance here, but mirth,
Not for the fault (that doth not come to mind),
But for the virtue, whose oГўВҖВҷerruling sway
And providence have wrought thus quaintly. Here
The skill is lookГўВҖВҷd into, that fashioneth
With such effectual working, and the good
DiscernГўВҖВҷd, accruing to this upper world
From that below. But fully to content
Thy wishes, all that in this sphere have birth,
Demands my further parle. Inquire thou wouldst,
Who of this light is denizen, that here
Beside me sparkles, as the sun-beam doth
On the clear wave. Know then, the soul of Rahab
Is in that gladsome harbour, to our tribe
United, and the foremost rank assignГўВҖВҷd.
He to that heavГўВҖВҷn, at which the shadow ends
Of your sublunar world, was taken up,
First, in ChristГўВҖВҷs triumph, of all souls redeemГўВҖВҷd:
For well behoovГўВҖВҷd, that, in some part of heavГўВҖВҷn,
She should remain a trophy, to declare
The mighty contest won with either palm;
For that she favourГўВҖВҷd first the high exploit
Of Joshua on the holy land, whereof
The Pope recks little now. Thy city, plant
Of him, that on his Maker turnГўВҖВҷd the back,
And of whose envying so much woe hath sprung,
Engenders and expands the cursed flower,
That hath made wander both the sheep and lambs,
Turning the shepherd to a wolf. For this,
The gospel and great teachers laid aside,
The decretals, as their stuft margins show,
Are the sole study. Pope and Cardinals,
Intent on these, neГўВҖВҷer journey but in thought
To Nazareth, where Gabriel opГўВҖВҷd his wings.
Yet it may chance, erelong, the Vatican,
And other most selected parts of Rome,
That were the grave of PeterГўВҖВҷs soldiery,
Shall be deliverГўВҖВҷd from the adultГўВҖВҷrous bond.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO X


Looking into his first-born with the love,
Which breathes from both eternal, the first Might
Ineffable, whence eye or mind
Can roam, hath in such order all disposГўВҖВҷd,
As none may see and fail to enjoy. Raise, then,
O reader! to the lofty wheels, with me,
Thy ken directed to the point, whereat
One motion strikes on thГўВҖВҷ other. There begin
Thy wonder of the mighty Architect,
Who loves his work so inwardly, his eye
Doth ever watch it. See, how thence oblique
Brancheth the circle, where the planets roll
To pour their wished influence on the world;
Whose path not bending thus, in heavГўВҖВҷn above
Much virtue would be lost, and here on earth,
All power well nigh extinct: or, from direct
Were its departure distant more or less,
IГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ universal order, great defect
Must, both in heavГўВҖВҷn and here beneath, ensue.

Now rest thee, reader! on thy bench, and muse
Anticipative of the feast to come;
So shall delight make thee not feel thy toil.
Lo! I have set before thee, for thyself
Feed now: the matter I indite, henceforth
Demands entire my thought. JoinГўВҖВҷd with the part,
Which late we told of, the great minister
Of nature, that upon the world imprints
The virtue of the heaven, and doles out
Time for us with his beam, went circling on
Along the spires, where each hour sooner comes;
And I was with him, weetless of ascent,
As one, who till arrivГўВҖВҷd, weets not his coming.

For Beatrice, she who passeth on
So suddenly from good to better, time
Counts not the act, oh then how great must needs
Have been her brightness! What she was iГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ sun
(Where I had enterГўВҖВҷd), not through change of hue,
But light transparentГўВҖВ”did I summon up
Genius, art, practiceГўВҖВ”I might not so speak,
It should be eГўВҖВҷer imaginГўВҖВҷd: yet believГўВҖВҷd
It may be, and the sight be justly cravГўВҖВҷd.
And if our fantasy fail of such height,
What marvel, since no eye above the sun
Hath ever travelГўВҖВҷd? Such are they dwell here,
Fourth family of the Omnipotent Sire,
Who of his spirit and of his offspring shows;
And holds them still enrapturГўВҖВҷd with the view.
And thus to me Beatrice: ГўВҖВңThank, oh thank,
The Sun of angels, him, who by his grace
To this perceptible hath lifted thee.ГўВҖВқ

Never was heart in such devotion bound,
And with complacency so absolute
DisposГўВҖВҷd to render up itself to God,
As mine was at those words: and so entire
The love for Him, that held me, it eclipsГўВҖВҷd
Beatrice in oblivion. Naught displeasГўВҖВҷd
Was she, but smilГўВҖВҷd thereat so joyously,
That of her laughing eyes the radiance brake
And scatterГўВҖВҷd my collected mind abroad.

Then saw I a bright band, in liveliness
Surpassing, who themselves did make the crown,
And us their centre: yet more sweet in voice,
Than in their visage beaming. CincturГўВҖВҷd thus,
Sometime LatonaГўВҖВҷs daughter we behold,
When the impregnate air retains the thread,
That weaves her zone. In the celestial court,
Whence I return, are many jewels found,
So dear and beautiful, they cannot brook
Transporting from that realm: and of these lights
Such was the song. Who doth not prune his wing
To soar up thither, let him look from thence
For tidings from the dumb. When, singing thus,
Those burning suns that circled round us thrice,
As nearest stars around the fixed pole,
Then seemГўВҖВҷd they like to ladies, from the dance
Not ceasing, but suspense, in silent pause,
ListГўВҖВҷning, till they have caught the strain anew:
Suspended so they stood: and, from within,
Thus heard I one, who spake: ГўВҖВңSince with its beam
The grace, whence true love lighteth first his flame,
That after doth increase by loving, shines
So multiplied in thee, it leads thee up
Along this ladder, down whose hallowГўВҖВҷd steps
None eГўВҖВҷer descend, and mount them not again,
Who from his phial should refuse thee wine
To slake thy thirst, no less constrained were,
Than water flowing not unto the sea.
Thou fain wouldst hear, what plants are these, that bloom
In the bright garland, which, admiring, girds
This fair dame round, who strengthens thee for heavГўВҖВҷn.
I then was of the lambs, that Dominic
Leads, for his saintly flock, along the way,
Where well they thrive, not sworn with vanity.
He, nearest on my right hand, brother was,
And master to me: Albert of Cologne
Is this: and of Aquinum, Thomas I.
If thou of all the rest wouldst be assurГўВҖВҷd,
Let thine eye, waiting on the words I speak,
In circuit journey round the blessed wreath.
That next resplendence issues from the smile
Of Gratian, who to either forum lent
Such help, as favour wins in Paradise.
The other, nearest, who adorns our quire,
Was Peter, he that with the widow gave
To holy church his treasure. The fifth light,
Goodliest of all, is by such love inspired,
That all your world craves tidings of its doom:
Within, there is the lofty light, endowГўВҖВҷd
With sapience so profound, if truth be truth,
That with a ken of such wide amplitude
No second hath arisen. Next behold
That taperГўВҖВҷs radiance, to whose view was shown,
Clearliest, the nature and the ministry
Angelical, while yet in flesh it dwelt.
In the other little light serenely smiles
That pleader for the Christian temples, he
Who did provide Augustin of his lore.
Now, if thy mindГўВҖВҷs eye pass from light to light,
Upon my praises following, of the eighth
Thy thirst is next. The saintly soul, that shows
The worldГўВҖВҷs deceitfulness, to all who hear him,
Is, with the sight of all the good, that is,
Blest there. The limbs, whence it was driven, lie
Down in Cieldauro, and from martyrdom
And exile came it here. Lo! further on,
Where flames the arduous Spirit of Isidore,
Of Bede, and Richard, more than man, erewhile,
In deep discernment. Lastly this, from whom
Thy look on me reverteth, was the beam
Of one, whose spirit, on high musings bent,
RebukГўВҖВҷd the lingГўВҖВҷring tardiness of death.
It is the eternal light of Sigebert,
Who ГўВҖВҷscapГўВҖВҷd not envy, when of truth he argued,
Reading in the straw-litterГўВҖВҷd street.ГўВҖВқ Forthwith,
As clock, that calleth up the spouse of God
To win her bridegroomГўВҖВҷs love at matinГўВҖВҷs hour,
Each part of other fitly drawn and urgГўВҖВҷd,
Sends out a tinkling sound, of note so sweet,
Affection springs in well-disposed breast;
Thus saw I move the glorious wheel, thus heard
Voice answГўВҖВҷring voice, so musical and soft,
It can be known but where day endless shines.




CANTO XI


O fond anxiety of mortal men!
How vain and inconclusive arguments
Are those, which make thee beat thy wings below
For statues one, and one for aphorisms
Was hunting; this the priesthood followГўВҖВҷd, that
By force or sophistry aspirГўВҖВҷd to rule;
To rob another, and another sought
By civil business wealth; one moiling lay
Tangled in net of sensual delight,
And one to witless indolence resignГўВҖВҷd;
What time from all these empty things escapГўВҖВҷd,
With Beatrice, I thus gloriously
Was raisГўВҖВҷd aloft, and made the guest of heavГўВҖВҷn.

They of the circle to that point, each one.
Where erst it was, had turnГўВҖВҷd; and steady glowГўВҖВҷd,
As candle in his socket. Then within
The lustre, that erewhile bespake me, smiling
With merer gladness, heard I thus begin:

ГўВҖВңEГўВҖВҷen as his beam illumes me, so I look
Into the eternal light, and clearly mark
Thy thoughts, from whence they rise. Thou art in doubt,
And wouldst, that I should bolt my words afresh
In such plain open phrase, as may be smooth
To thy perception, where I told thee late
That ГўВҖВҳwell they thrive;ГўВҖВҷ and that ГўВҖВҳno second such
Hath risen,ГўВҖВҷ which no small distinction needs.

ГўВҖВңThe providence, that governeth the world,
In depth of counsel by created ken
Unfathomable, to the end that she,
Who with loud cries was ГўВҖВҷspousГўВҖВҷd in precious blood,
Might keep her footing towards her well-belovГўВҖВҷd,
Safe in herself and constant unto him,
Hath two ordainГўВҖВҷd, who should on either hand
In chief escort her: one seraphic all
In fervency; for wisdom upon earth,
The other splendour of cherubic light.
I but of one will tell: he tells of both,
Who one commendeth which of them soГўВҖВҷer
Be taken: for their deeds were to one end.

ГўВҖВңBetween Tupino, and the wave, that falls
From blest UbaldoГўВҖВҷs chosen hill, there hangs
Rich slope of mountain high, whence heat and cold
Are wafted through PerugiaГўВҖВҷs eastern gate:
And Norcera with Gualdo, in its rear
Mourn for their heavy yoke. Upon that side,
Where it doth break its steepness most, arose
A sun upon the world, as duly this
From Ganges doth: therefore let none, who speak
Of that place, say Ascesi; for its name
Were lamely so deliverГўВҖВҷd; but the East,
To call things rightly, be it henceforth stylГўВҖВҷd.
He was not yet much distant from his rising,
When his good influence ГўВҖВҷgan to bless the earth.
A dame to whom none openeth pleasureГўВҖВҷs gate
More than to death, was, ГўВҖВҷgainst his fatherГўВҖВҷs will,
His stripling choice: and he did make her his,
Before the Spiritual court, by nuptial bonds,
And in his fatherГўВҖВҷs sight: from day to day,
Then lovГўВҖВҷd her more devoutly. She, bereavГўВҖВҷd
Of her first husband, slighted and obscure,
Thousand and hundred years and more, remainГўВҖВҷd
Without a single suitor, till he came.
Nor aught availГўВҖВҷd, that, with Amyclas, she
Was found unmovГўВҖВҷd at rumour of his voice,
Who shook the world: nor aught her constant boldness
Whereby with Christ she mounted on the cross,
When Mary stayГўВҖВҷd beneath. But not to deal
Thus closely with thee longer, take at large
The roversГўВҖВҷ titlesГўВҖВ”Poverty and Francis.
Their concord and glad looks, wonder and love,
And sweet regard gave birth to holy thoughts,
So much, that venerable Bernard first
Did bare his feet, and, in pursuit of peace
So heavenly, ran, yet deemГўВҖВҷd his footing slow.
O hidden riches! O prolific good!
Egidius bares him next, and next Sylvester,
And follow both the bridegroom; so the bride
Can please them. Thenceforth goes he on his way,
The father and the master, with his spouse,
And with that family, whom now the cord
Girt humbly: nor did abjectness of heart
Weigh down his eyelids, for that he was son
Of Pietro Bernardone, and by men
In wondГўВҖВҷrous sort despisГўВҖВҷd. But royally
His hard intention he to Innocent
Set forth, and from him first receivГўВҖВҷd the seal
On his religion. Then, when numerous flockГўВҖВҷd
The tribe of lowly ones, that tracГўВҖВҷd HIS steps,
Whose marvellous life deservedly were sung
In heights empyreal, through HonoriusГўВҖВҷ hand
A second crown, to deck their GuardianГўВҖВҷs virtues,
Was by the eternal Spirit inwreathГўВҖВҷd: and when
He had, through thirst of martyrdom, stood up
In the proud SoldanГўВҖВҷs presence, and there preachГўВҖВҷd
Christ and his followers; but found the race
UnripenГўВҖВҷd for conversion: back once more
He hasted (not to intermit his toil),
And reapГўВҖВҷd Ausonian lands. On the hard rock,
ГўВҖВҷTwixt Arno and the Tyber, he from Christ
Took the last Signet, which his limbs two years
Did carry. Then the season come, that he,
Who to such good had destinГўВҖВҷd him, was pleasГўВҖВҷd
TГўВҖВҷ advance him to the meed, which he had earnГўВҖВҷd
By his self-humbling, to his brotherhood,
As their just heritage, he gave in charge
His dearest lady, and enjoinГўВҖВҷd their love
And faith to her: and, from her bosom, willГўВҖВҷd
His goodly spirit should move forth, returning
To its appointed kingdom, nor would have
His body laid upon another bier.

ГўВҖВңThink now of one, who were a fit colleague,
To keep the bark of Peter in deep sea
HelmГўВҖВҷd to right point; and such our Patriarch was.
Therefore who follow him, as he enjoins,
Thou mayst be certain, take good lading in.
But hunger of new viands tempts his flock,
So that they needs into strange pastures wide
Must spread them: and the more remote from him
The stragglers wander, so much mole they come
Home to the sheep-fold, destitute of milk.
There are of them, in truth, who fear their harm,
And to the shepherd cleave; but these so few,
A little stuff may furnish out their cloaks.

ГўВҖВңNow, if my words be clear, if thou have taГўВҖВҷen
Good heed, if that, which I have told, recall
To mind, thy wish may be in part fulfillГўВҖВҷd:
For thou wilt see the point from whence they split,
Nor miss of the reproof, which that implies,
ГўВҖВҳThat well they thrive not sworn with vanity.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ




CANTO XII


Soon as its final word the blessed flame
Had raisГўВҖВҷd for utterance, straight the holy mill
Began to wheel, nor yet had once revolvГўВҖВҷd,
Or ere another, circling, compassГўВҖВҷd it,
Motion to motion, song to song, conjoining,
Song, that as much our muses doth excel,
Our Sirens with their tuneful pipes, as ray
Of primal splendour doth its faint reflex.

As when, if Juno bid her handmaid forth,
Two arches parallel, and trickГўВҖВҷd alike,
Span the thin cloud, the outer taking birth
From that within (in manner of that voice
Whom love did melt away, as sun the mist),
And they who gaze, presageful call to mind
The compact, made with Noah, of the world
No more to be oГўВҖВҷerflowГўВҖВҷd; about us thus
Of sempiternal roses, bending, wreathГўВҖВҷd
Those garlands twain, and to the innermost
EГўВҖВҷen thus thГўВҖВҷ external answered. When the footing,
And other great festivity, of song,
And radiance, light with light accordant, each
Jocund and blythe, had at their pleasure stillГўВҖВҷd
(EГўВҖВҷen as the eyes by quick volition movГўВҖВҷd,
Are shut and raisГўВҖВҷd together), from the heart
Of one amongst the new lights movГўВҖВҷd a voice,
That made me seem like needle to the star,
In turning to its whereabout, and thus
Began: ГўВҖВңThe love, that makes me beautiful,
Prompts me to tell of thГўВҖВҷ other guide, for whom
Such good of mine is spoken. Where one is,
The other worthily should also be;
That as their warfare was alike, alike
Should be their glory. Slow, and full of doubt,
And with thin ranks, after its banner movГўВҖВҷd
The army of Christ (which it so clearly cost
To reappoint), when its imperial Head,
Who reigneth ever, for the drooping host
Did make provision, thorough grace alone,
And not through its deserving. As thou heardГўВҖВҷst,
Two champions to the succour of his spouse
He sent, who by their deeds and words might join
Again his scatterГўВҖВҷd people. In that clime,
Where springs the pleasant west-wind to unfold
The fresh leaves, with which Europe sees herself
New-garmented; nor from those billows far,
Beyond whose chiding, after weary course,
The sun doth sometimes hide him, safe abides
The happy Callaroga, under guard
Of the great shield, wherein the lion lies
Subjected and supreme. And there was born
The loving million of the Christian faith,
The hollowГўВҖВҷd wrestler, gentle to his own,
And to his enemies terrible. So replete
His soul with lively virtue, that when first
Created, even in the motherГўВҖВҷs womb,
It prophesied. When, at the sacred font,
The spousals were complete ГўВҖВҷtwixt faith and him,
Where pledge of mutual safety was exchangГўВҖВҷd,
The dame, who was his surety, in her sleep
Beheld the wondrous fruit, that was from him
And from his heirs to issue. And that such
He might be construed, as indeed he was,
She was inspirГўВҖВҷd to name him of his owner,
Whose he was wholly, and so callГўВҖВҷd him Dominic.
And I speak of him, as the labourer,
Whom Christ in his own garden chose to be
His help-mate. Messenger he seemГўВҖВҷd, and friend
Fast-knit to Christ; and the first love he showГўВҖВҷd,
Was after the first counsel that Christ gave.
Many a time his nurse, at entering found
That he had risГўВҖВҷn in silence, and was prostrate,
As who should say, ГўВҖВңMy errand was for this.ГўВҖВқ
O happy father! Felix rightly namГўВҖВҷd!
O favourГўВҖВҷd mother! rightly namГўВҖВҷd Joanna!
If that do mean, as men interpret it.
Not for the worldГўВҖВҷs sake, for which now they pore
Upon Ostiense and TaddeoГўВҖВҷs page,
But for the real manna, soon he grew
Mighty in learning, and did set himself
To go about the vineyard, that soon turns
To wan and witherГўВҖВҷd, if not tended well:
And from the see (whose bounty to the just
And needy is gone by, not through its fault,
But his who fills it basely, he besought,
No dispensation for commuted wrong,
Nor the first vacant fortune, nor the tenth),
That to GodГўВҖВҷs paupers rightly appertain,
But, ГўВҖВҷgainst an erring and degenerate world,
Licence to fight, in favour of that seed,
From which the twice twelve cions gird thee round.
Then, with sage doctrine and good will to help,
Forth on his great apostleship he farГўВҖВҷd,
Like torrent bursting from a lofty vein;
And, dashing ГўВҖВҷgainst the stocks of heresy,
Smote fiercest, where resistance was most stout.
Thence many rivulets have since been turnГўВҖВҷd,
Over the garden Catholic to lead
Their living waters, and have fed its plants.

ГўВҖВңIf such one wheel of that two-yoked car,
Wherein the holy church defended her,
And rode triumphant through the civil broil.
Thou canst not doubt its fellowГўВҖВҷs excellence,
Which Thomas, ere my coming, hath declarГўВҖВҷd
So courteously unto thee. But the track,
Which its smooth fellies made, is now deserted:
That mouldy mother is where late were lees.
His family, that wont to trace his path,
Turn backward, and invert their steps; erelong
To rue the gathering in of their ill crop,
When the rejected tares in vain shall ask
Admittance to the barn. I question not
But he, who searchГўВҖВҷd our volume, leaf by leaf,
Might still find page with this inscription onГўВҖВҷt,
ГўВҖВҳI am as I was wont.ГўВҖВҷ Yet such were not
From Acquasparta nor Casale, whence
Of those, who come to meddle with the text,
One stretches and another cramps its rule.
BonaventuraГўВҖВҷs life in me behold,
From Bagnororegio, one, who in discharge
Of my great offices still laid aside
All sinister aim. Illuminato here,
And Agostino join me: two they were,
Among the first of those barefooted meek ones,
Who sought GodГўВҖВҷs friendship in the cord: with them
Hugues of Saint Victor, Pietro Mangiadore,
And he of Spain in his twelve volumes shining,
Nathan the prophet, Metropolitan
Chrysostom, and Anselmo, and, who deignГўВҖВҷd
To put his hand to the first art, Donatus.
Raban is here: and at my side there shines
CalabriaГўВҖВҷs abbot, Joachim, endowГўВҖВҷd
With soul prophetic. The bright courtesy
Of friar Thomas, and his goodly lore,
Have movГўВҖВҷd me to the blazon of a peer
So worthy, and with me have movГўВҖВҷd this throng.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XIII


Let him, who would conceive what now I saw,
Imagine (and retain the image firm,
As mountain rock, the whilst he hears me speak),
Of stars fifteen, from midst the ethereal host
Selected, that, with lively ray serene,
OГўВҖВҷercome the massiest air: thereto imagine
The wain, that, in the bosom of our sky,
Spins ever on its axle night and day,
With the bright summit of that horn which swells
Due from the pole, round which the first wheel rolls,
TГўВҖВҷ have rangГўВҖВҷd themselves in fashion of two signs
In heavГўВҖВҷn, such as Ariadne made,
When deathГўВҖВҷs chill seized her; and that one of them
Did compass in the otherГўВҖВҷs beam; and both
In such sort whirl around, that each should tend
With opposite motion and, conceiving thus,
Of that true constellation, and the dance
Twofold, that circled me, he shall attain
As ГўВҖВҷt were the shadow; for things there as much
Surpass our usage, as the swiftest heavГўВҖВҷn
Is swifter than the Chiana. There was sung
No Bacchus, and no Io Paean, but
Three Persons in the Godhead, and in one
Substance that nature and the human joinГўВҖВҷd.

The song fulfillГўВҖВҷd its measure; and to us
Those saintly lights attended, happier made
At each new ministГўВҖВҷring. Then silence brake,
Amid thГўВҖВҷ accordant sons of Deity,
That luminary, in which the wondrous life
Of the meek man of God was told to me;
And thus it spake: ГўВҖВңOne ear oГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ harvest threshГўВҖВҷd,
And its grain safely storГўВҖВҷd, sweet charity
Invites me with the other to like toil.

ГўВҖВңThou knowГўВҖВҷst, that in the bosom, whence the rib
Was taГўВҖВҷen to fashion that fair cheek, whose taste
All the world pays for, and in that, which piercГўВҖВҷd
By the keen lance, both after and before
Such satisfaction offerГўВҖВҷd, as outweighs
Each evil in the scale, whateГўВҖВҷer of light
To human nature is allowГўВҖВҷd, must all
Have by his virtue been infusГўВҖВҷd, who formГўВҖВҷd
Both one and other: and thou thence admirГўВҖВҷst
In that I told thee, of beatitudes
A second, there is none, to his enclosГўВҖВҷd
In the fifth radiance. Open now thine eyes
To what I answer thee; and thou shalt see
Thy deeming and my saying meet in truth,
As centre in the round. That which dies not,
And that which can die, are but each the beam
Of that idea, which our Soverign Sire
Engendereth loving; for that lively light,
Which passeth from his brightness; not disjoinГўВҖВҷd
From him, nor from his love triune with them,
Doth, through his bounty, congregate itself,
MirrorГўВҖВҷd, as ГўВҖВҷt were in new existences,
Itself unalterable and ever one.

ГўВҖВңDescending hence unto the lowest powers,
Its energy so sinks, at last it makes
But brief contingencies: for so I name
Things generated, which the heavГўВҖВҷnly orbs
Moving, with seed or without seed, produce.
Their wax, and that which molds it, differ much:
And thence with lustre, more or less, it shows
ThГўВҖВҷ ideal stamp impress: so that one tree
According to his kind, hath better fruit,
And worse: and, at your birth, ye, mortal men,
Are in your talents various. Were the wax
Molded with nice exactness, and the heavГўВҖВҷn
In its disposing influence supreme,
The lustre of the seal should be complete:
But nature renders it imperfect ever,
Resembling thus the artist in her work,
Whose faultering hand is faithless to his skill.
HoweГўВҖВҷer, if love itself dispose, and mark
The primal virtue, kindling with bright view,
There all perfection is vouchsafed; and such
The clay was made, accomplishГўВҖВҷd with each gift,
That life can teem with; such the burden fillГўВҖВҷd
The virginГўВҖВҷs bosom: so that I commend
Thy judgment, that the human nature neГўВҖВҷer
Was or can be, such as in them it was.

ГўВҖВңDid I advance no further than this point,
ГўВҖВҳHow then had he no peer?ГўВҖВҷ thou mightГўВҖВҷst reply.
But, that what now appears not, may appear
Right plainly, ponder, who he was, and what
(When he was bidden ГўВҖВҳAskГўВҖВҷ), the motive swayГўВҖВҷd
To his requesting. I have spoken thus,
That thou mayst see, he was a king, who askГўВҖВҷd
For wisdom, to the end he might be king
Sufficient: not the number to search out
Of the celestial movers; or to know,
If necessary with contingent eГўВҖВҷer
Have made necessity; or whether that
Be granted, that first motion is; or if
Of the mid circle can, by art, be made
Triangle with each corner, blunt or sharp.

ГўВҖВңWhence, noting that, which I have said, and this,
Thou kingly prudence and that ken mayst learn,
At which the dart of my intention aims.
And, marking clearly, that I told thee, ГўВҖВҳRisen,ГўВҖВҷ
Thou shalt discern it only hath respect
To kings, of whom are many, and the good
Are rare. With this distinction take my words;
And they may well consist with that which thou
Of the first human father dost believe,
And of our well-beloved. And let this
Henceforth be led unto thy feet, to make
Thee slow in motion, as a weary man,
Both to the ГўВҖВҳyeaГўВҖВҷ and to the ГўВҖВҳnayГўВҖВҷ thou seest not.
For he among the fools is down full low,
Whose affirmation, or denial, is
Without distinction, in each case alike
Since it befalls, that in most instances
Current opinion leads to false: and then
Affection bends the judgment to her ply.

ГўВҖВңMuch more than vainly doth he loose from shore,
Since he returns not such as he set forth,
Who fishes for the truth and wanteth skill.
And open proofs of this unto the world
Have been afforded in Parmenides,
Melissus, Bryso, and the crowd beside,
Who journeyГўВҖВҷd on, and knew not whither: so did
Sabellius, Arius, and the other fools,
Who, like to scymitars, reflected back
The scripture-image, by distortion marrГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңLet not the people be too swift to judge,
As one who reckons on the blades in field,
Or ere the crop be ripe. For I have seen
The thorn frown rudely all the winter long
And after bear the rose upon its top;
And bark, that all the way across the sea
Ran straight and speedy, perish at the last,
EГўВҖВҷen in the havenГўВҖВҷs mouth seeing one steal,
Another brine, his offering to the priest,
Let not Dame Birtha and Sir Martin thence
Into heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs counsels deem that they can pry:
For one of these may rise, the other fall.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XIV


From centre to the circle, and so back
From circle to the centre, water moves
In the round chalice, even as the blow
Impels it, inwardly, or from without.
Such was the image glancГўВҖВҷd into my mind,
As the great spirit of Aquinum ceasГўВҖВҷd;
And Beatrice after him her words
ResumГўВҖВҷd alternate: ГўВҖВңNeed there is (thoГўВҖВҷ yet
He tells it to you not in words, nor eГўВҖВҷen
In thought) that he should fathom to its depth
Another mystery. Tell him, if the light,
Wherewith your substance blooms, shall stay with you
Eternally, as now: and, if it doth,
How, when ye shall regain your visible forms,
The sight may without harm endure the change,
That also tell.ГўВҖВқ As those, who in a ring
Tread the light measure, in their fitful mirth
Raise loud the voice, and spring with gladder bound;
Thus, at the hearing of that pious suit,
The saintly circles in their tourneying
And wondГўВҖВҷrous note attested new delight.

Whoso laments, that we must doff this garb
Of frail mortality, thenceforth to live
Immortally above, he hath not seen
The sweet refreshing, of that heavГўВҖВҷnly shower.

Him, who lives ever, and for ever reigns
In mystic union of the Three in One,
Unbounded, bounding all, each spirit thrice
Sang, with such melody, as but to hear
For highest merit were an ample meed.
And from the lesser orb the goodliest light,
With gentle voice and mild, such as perhaps
The angelГўВҖВҷs once to Mary, thus replied:
ГўВҖВңLong as the joy of Paradise shall last,
Our love shall shine around that raiment, bright,
As fervent; fervent, as in vision blest;
And that as far in blessedness exceeding,
As it hath grave beyond its virtue great.
Our shape, regarmented with glorious weeds
Of saintly flesh, must, being thus entire,
Show yet more gracious. Therefore shall increase,
WhateГўВҖВҷer of light, gratuitous, imparts
The Supreme Good; light, ministering aid,
The better disclose his glory: whence
The vision needs increasing, much increase
The fervour, which it kindles; and that too
The ray, that comes from it. But as the greed
Which gives out flame, yet it its whiteness shines
More lively than that, and so preserves
Its proper semblance; thus this circling sphere
Of splendour, shall to view less radiant seem,
Than shall our fleshly robe, which yonder earth
Now covers. Nor will such excess of light
OГўВҖВҷerpower us, in corporeal organs made
Firm, and susceptible of all delight.ГўВҖВқ

So ready and so cordial an ГўВҖВңAmen,ГўВҖВқ
Followed from either choir, as plainly spoke
Desire of their dead bodies; yet perchance
Not for themselves, but for their kindred dear,
Mothers and sires, and those whom best they lovГўВҖВҷd,
Ere they were made imperishable flame.

And lo! forthwith there rose up round about
A lustre over that already there,
Of equal clearness, like the brightening up
Of the horizon. As at an evening hour
Of twilight, new appearances through heavГўВҖВҷn
Peer with faint glimmer, doubtfully descried;
So there new substances, methought began
To rise in view; and round the other twain
Enwheeling, sweep their ampler circuit wide.

O gentle glitter of eternal beam!
With what a such whiteness did it flow,
OГўВҖВҷerpowering vision in me! But so fair,
So passing lovely, Beatrice showГўВҖВҷd,
Mind cannot follow it, nor words express
Her infinite sweetness. Thence mine eyes regainГўВҖВҷd
Power to look up, and I beheld myself,
Sole with my lady, to more lofty bliss
Translated: for the star, with warmer smile
Impurpled, well denoted our ascent.

With all the heart, and with that tongue which speaks
The same in all, an holocaust I made
To God, befitting the new grace vouchsafГўВҖВҷd.
And from my bosom had not yet upsteamГўВҖВҷd
The fuming of that incense, when I knew
The rite accepted. With such mighty sheen
And mantling crimson, in two listed rays
The splendours shot before me, that I cried,
ГўВҖВңGod of Sabaoth! that does prank them thus!ГўВҖВқ

As leads the galaxy from pole to pole,
DistinguishГўВҖВҷd into greater lights and less,
Its pathway, which the wisest fail to spell;
So thickly studded, in the depth of Mars,
Those rays describГўВҖВҷd the venerable sign,
That quadrants in the round conjoining frame.
Here memory mocks the toil of genius. Christ
BeamГўВҖВҷd on that cross; and pattern fails me now.
But whoso takes his cross, and follows Christ
Will pardon me for that I leave untold,
When in the fleckerГўВҖВҷd dawning he shall spy
The glitterance of Christ. From horn to horn,
And ГўВҖВҷtween the summit and the base did move
Lights, scintillating, as they met and passГўВҖВҷd.
Thus oft are seen, with ever-changeful glance,
Straight or athwart, now rapid and now slow,
The atomies of bodies, long or short,
To move along the sunbeam, whose slant line
Checkers the shadow, interposГўВҖВҷd by art
Against the noontide heat. And as the chime
Of minstrel music, dulcimer, and help
With many strings, a pleasant dining makes
To him, who heareth not distinct the note;
So from the lights, which there appearГўВҖВҷd to me,
GatherГўВҖВҷd along the cross a melody,
That, indistinctly heard, with ravishment
PossessГўВҖВҷd me. Yet I markГўВҖВҷd it was a hymn
Of lofty praises; for there came to me
ГўВҖВңArise and conquer,ГўВҖВқ as to one who hears
And comprehends not. Me such ecstasy
OГўВҖВҷercame, that never till that hour was thing
That held me in so sweet imprisonment.

Perhaps my saying over bold appears,
Accounting less the pleasure of those eyes,
Whereon to look fulfilleth all desire.
But he, who is aware those living seals
Of every beauty work with quicker force,
The higher they are risГўВҖВҷn; and that there
I had not turnГўВҖВҷd me to them; he may well
Excuse me that, whereof in my excuse
I do accuse me, and may own my truth;
That holy pleasure here not yet revealГўВҖВҷd,
Which grows in transport as we mount aloof.




CANTO XV


True love, that ever shows itself as clear
In kindness, as loose appetite in wrong,
Silenced that lyre harmonious, and stillГўВҖВҷd
The sacred chords, that are by heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs right hand
Unwound and tightenГўВҖВҷd, flow to righteous prayers
Should they not hearken, who, to give me will
For praying, in accordance thus were mute?
He hath in sooth good cause for endless grief,
Who, for the love of thing that lasteth not,
Despoils himself forever of that love.

As oft along the still and pure serene,
At nightfall, glides a sudden trail of fire,
Attracting with involuntary heed
The eye to follow it, erewhile at rest,
And seems some star that shifted place in heavГўВҖВҷn,
Only that, whence it kindles, none is lost,
And it is soon extinct; thus from the horn,
That on the dexter of the cross extends,
Down to its foot, one luminary ran
From mid the cluster shone there; yet no gem
DroppГўВҖВҷd from its foil; and through the beamy list
Like flame in alabaster, glowГўВҖВҷd its course.

So forward stretchГўВҖВҷd him (if of credence aught
Our greater muse may claim) the pious ghost
Of old Anchises, in theГўВҖВҷ Elysian bower,
When he perceivГўВҖВҷd his son. ГўВҖВңO thou, my blood!
O most exceeding grace divine! to whom,
As now to thee, hath twice the heavГўВҖВҷnly gate
Been eГўВҖВҷer unclosГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқ so spake the light; whence I
TurnГўВҖВҷd me toward him; then unto my dame
My sight directed, and on either side
Amazement waited me; for in her eyes
Was lighted such a smile, I thought that mine
Had divГўВҖВҷd unto the bottom of my grace
And of my bliss in Paradise. Forthwith
To hearing and to sight grateful alike,
The spirit to his proem added things
I understood not, so profound he spake;
Yet not of choice but through necessity
Mysterious; for his high conception scarГўВҖВҷd
Beyond the mark of mortals. When the flight
Of holy transport had so spent its rage,
That nearer to the level of our thought
The speech descended, the first sounds I heard
Were, ГўВҖВңBest he thou, Triunal Deity!
That hast such favour in my seed vouchsafГўВҖВҷd!ГўВҖВқ
Then followГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңNo unpleasant thirst, thoГўВҖВҷ long,
Which took me reading in the sacred book,
Whose leaves or white or dusky never change,
Thou hast allayГўВҖВҷd, my son, within this light,
From whence my voice thou hearГўВҖВҷst; more thanks to her.
Who for such lofty mounting has with plumes
Begirt thee. Thou dost deem thy thoughts to me
From him transmitted, who is first of all,
EГўВҖВҷen as all numbers ray from unity;
And therefore dost not ask me who I am,
Or why to thee more joyous I appear,
Than any other in this gladsome throng.
The truth is as thou deemГўВҖВҷst; for in this hue
Both less and greater in that mirror look,
In which thy thoughts, or ere thou thinkГўВҖВҷst, are shown.
But, that the love, which keeps me wakeful ever,
Urging with sacred thirst of sweet desire,
May be contended fully, let thy voice,
Fearless, and frank and jocund, utter forth
Thy will distinctly, utter forth the wish,
Whereto my ready answer stands decreed.ГўВҖВқ

I turnГўВҖВҷd me to Beatrice; and she heard
Ere I had spoken, smiling, an assent,
That to my will gave wings; and I began
ГўВҖВңTo each among your tribe, what time ye kennГўВҖВҷd
The nature, in whom naught unequal dwells,
Wisdom and love were in one measure dealt;
For that they are so equal in the sun,
From whence ye drew your radiance and your heat,
As makes all likeness scant. But will and means,
In mortals, for the cause ye well discern,
With unlike wings are fledge. A mortal I
Experience inequality like this,
And therefore give no thanks, but in the heart,
For thy paternal greeting. This howeГўВҖВҷer
I pray thee, living topaz! that ingemmГўВҖВҷst
This precious jewel, let me hear thy name.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI am thy root, O leaf! whom to expect
Even, hath pleasГўВҖВҷd me:ГўВҖВқ thus the prompt reply
Prefacing, next it added: ГўВҖВңhe, of whom
Thy kindred appellation comes, and who,
These hundred years and more, on its first ledge
Hath circuited the mountain, was my son
And thy great grandsire. Well befits, his long
Endurance should be shortenГўВҖВҷd by thy deeds.

ГўВҖВңFlorence, within her ancient limit-mark,
Which calls her still to matin prayers and noon,
Was chaste and sober, and abode in peace.
She had no armlets and no head-tires then,
No purfled dames, no zone, that caught the eye
More than the person did. Time was not yet,
When at his daughterГўВҖВҷs birth the sire grew pale.
For fear the age and dowry should exceed
On each side just proportion. House was none
Void of its family; nor yet had come
Hardanapalus, to exhibit feats
Of chamber prowess. Montemalo yet
OГўВҖВҷer our suburban turret rose; as much
To be surpass in fall, as in its rising.
I saw Bellincione Berti walk abroad
In leathern girdle and a clasp of bone;
And, with no artful colouring on her cheeks,
His lady leave the glass. The sons I saw
Of Nerli and of Vecchio well content
With unrobГўВҖВҷd jerkin; and their good dames handling
The spindle and the flax; O happy they!
Each sure of burial in her native land,
And none left desolate a-bed for France!
One wakГўВҖВҷd to tend the cradle, hushing it
With sounds that lullГўВҖВҷd the parentГўВҖВҷs infancy:
Another, with her maidens, drawing off
The tresses from the distaff, lecturГўВҖВҷd them
Old tales of Troy and Fesole and Rome.
A Salterello and Cianghella we
Had held as strange a marvel, as ye would
A Cincinnatus or Cornelia now.

ГўВҖВңIn such composГўВҖВҷd and seemly fellowship,
Such faithful and such fair equality,
In so sweet household, Mary at my birth
BestowГўВҖВҷd me, callГўВҖВҷd on with loud cries; and there
In your old baptistery, I was made
Christian at once and Cacciaguida; as were
My brethren, Eliseo and Moronto.

ГўВҖВңFrom Valdipado came to me my spouse,
And hence thy surname grew. I followГўВҖВҷd then
The Emperor Conrad; and his knighthood he
Did gird on me; in such good part he took
My valiant service. After him I went
To testify against that evil law,
Whose people, by the shepherdГўВҖВҷs fault, possess
Your right, usurping. There, by that foul crew
Was I releasГўВҖВҷd from the deceitful world,
Whose base affection many a spirit soils,
And from the martyrdom came to this peace.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XVI


O slight respect of manГўВҖВҷs nobility!
I never shall account it marvelous,
That our infirm affection here below
Thou movГўВҖВҷst to boasting, when I could not choose,
EГўВҖВҷen in that region of unwarpГўВҖВҷd desire,
In heavГўВҖВҷn itself, but make my vaunt in thee!
Yet cloak thou art soon shortenГўВҖВҷd, for that time,
Unless thou be eked out from day to day,
Goes round thee with his shears. Resuming then
With greeting such, as Rome, was first to bear,
But since hath disaccustomГўВҖВҷd I began;
And Beatrice, that a little space
Was severГўВҖВҷd, smilГўВҖВҷd reminding me of her,
Whose cough emboldenГўВҖВҷd (as the story holds)
To first offence the doubting Guenever.

ГўВҖВңYou are my sire,ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңyou give me heart
Freely to speak my thought: above myself
You raise me. Through so many streams with joy
My soul is fillГўВҖВҷd, that gladness wells from it;
So that it bears the mighty tide, and bursts not
Say then, my honourГўВҖВҷd stem! what ancestors
Where those you sprang from, and what years were markГўВҖВҷd
In your first childhood? Tell me of the fold,
That hath Saint John for guardian, what was then
Its state, and who in it were highest seated?ГўВҖВқ

As embers, at the breathing of the wind,
Their flame enliven, so that light I saw
Shine at my blandishments; and, as it grew
More fair to look on, so with voice more sweet,
Yet not in this our modern phrase, forthwith
It answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңFrom the day, when it was said
ГўВҖВҳHail Virgin!ГўВҖВҷ to the throes, by which my mother,
Who now is sainted, lightenГўВҖВҷd her of me
Whom she was heavy with, this fire had come,
Five hundred fifty times and thrice, its beams
To reilumine underneath the foot
Of its own lion. They, of whom I sprang,
And I, had there our birth-place, where the last
Partition of our city first is reachГўВҖВҷd
By him, that runs her annual game. Thus much
Suffice of my forefathers: who they were,
And whence they hither came, more honourable
It is to pass in silence than to tell.
All those, who in that time were there from Mars
Until the Baptist, fit to carry arms,
Were but the fifth of them this day alive.
But then the citizenГўВҖВҷs blood, that now is mixГўВҖВҷd
From Campi and Certaldo and Fighine,
Ran purely through the last mechanicГўВҖВҷs veins.
O how much better were it, that these people
Were neighbours to you, and that at Galluzzo
And at Trespiano, ye should have your boundГўВҖВҷry,
Than to have them within, and bear the stench
Of AguglioneГўВҖВҷs hind, and SignaГўВҖВҷs, him,
That hath his eye already keen for bartГўВҖВҷring!
Had not the people, which of all the world
Degenerates most, been stepdame unto Caesar,
But, as a mother, gracious to her son;
Such one, as hath become a Florentine,
And trades and traffics, had been turnГўВҖВҷd adrift
To Simifonte, where his grandsire plyГўВҖВҷd
The beggarГўВҖВҷs craft. The Conti were possessГўВҖВҷd
Of Montemurlo still: the Cerchi still
Were in AconeГўВҖВҷs parish; nor had haply
From Valdigrieve past the Buondelmonte.
The cityГўВҖВҷs malady hath ever source
In the confusion of its persons, as
The bodyГўВҖВҷs, in variety of food:
And the blind bull falls with a steeper plunge,
Than the blind lamb; and oftentimes one sword
Doth more and better execution,
Than five. Mark Luni, Urbisaglia mark,
How they are gone, and after them how go
Chiusi and Sinigaglia; and ГўВҖВҷt will seem
No longer new or strange to thee to hear,
That families fail, when cities have their end.
All things, that appertain tГўВҖВҷ ye, like yourselves,
Are mortal: but mortality in some
Ye mark not, they endure so long, and you
Pass by so suddenly. And as the moon
Doth, by the rolling of her heavГўВҖВҷnly sphere,
Hide and reveal the strand unceasingly;
So fortune deals with Florence. Hence admire not
At what of them I tell thee, whose renown
Time covers, the first Florentines. I saw
The Ughi, Catilini and Filippi,
The Alberichi, Greci and Ormanni,
Now in their wane, illustrious citizens:
And great as ancient, of Sannella him,
With him of Arca saw, and Soldanieri
And Ardinghi, and Bostichi. At the poop,
That now is laden with new felony,
So cumbГўВҖВҷrous it may speedily sink the bark,
The Ravignani sat, of whom is sprung
The County Guido, and whoso hath since
His title from the famГўВҖВҷd Bellincione taГўВҖВҷen.
Fair governance was yet an art well prizГўВҖВҷd
By him of Pressa: Galigaio showГўВҖВҷd
The gilded hilt and pommel, in his house.
The column, clothГўВҖВҷd with verrey, still was seen
Unshaken: the Sacchetti still were great,
Giouchi, Sifanti, Galli and Barucci,
With them who blush to hear the bushel namГўВҖВҷd.
Of the Calfucci still the branchy trunk
Was in its strength: and to the curule chairs
Sizii and Arigucci yet were drawn.
How mighty them I saw, whom since their pride
Hath undone! and in all her goodly deeds
Florence was by the bullets of bright gold
OГўВҖВҷerflourishГўВҖВҷd. Such the sires of those, who now,
As surely as your church is vacant, flock
Into her consistory, and at leisure
There stall them and grow fat. The oГўВҖВҷerweening brood,
That plays the dragon after him that flees,
But unto such, as turn and show the tooth,
Ay or the purse, is gentle as a lamb,
Was on its rise, but yet so slight esteemГўВҖВҷd,
That Ubertino of Donati grudgГўВҖВҷd
His father-in-law should yoke him to its tribe.
Already Caponsacco had descended
Into the mart from Fesole: and Giuda
And Infangato were good citizens.
A thing incredible I tell, thoГўВҖВҷ true:
The gateway, named from those of Pera, led
Into the narrow circuit of your walls.
Each one, who bears the sightly quarterings
Of the great Baron (he whose name and worth
The festival of Thomas still revives)
His knighthood and his privilege retainГўВҖВҷd;
Albeit one, who borders them With gold,
This day is mingled with the common herd.
In Borgo yet the Gualterotti dwelt,
And Importuni: well for its repose
Had it still lackГўВҖВҷd of newer neighbourhood.
The house, from whence your tears have had their spring,
Through the just anger that hath murderГўВҖВҷd ye
And put a period to your gladsome days,
Was honourГўВҖВҷd, it, and those consorted with it.
O Buondelmonte! what ill counseling
PrevailГўВҖВҷd on thee to break the plighted bond
Many, who now are weeping, would rejoice,
Had God to Ema givГўВҖВҷn thee, the first time
Thou near our city camГўВҖВҷst. But so was doomГўВҖВҷd:
On that maimГўВҖВҷd stone set up to guard the bridge,
At thy last peace, the victim, Florence! fell.
With these and others like to them, I saw
Florence in such assurГўВҖВҷd tranquility,
She had no cause at which to grieve: with these
Saw her so glorious and so just, that neГўВҖВҷer
The lily from the lance had hung reverse,
Or through division been with vermeil dyed.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XVII


Such as the youth, who came to Clymene
To certify himself of that reproach,
Which had been fastenГўВҖВҷd on him, (he whose end
Still makes the fathers chary to their sons),
EГўВҖВҷen such was I; nor unobservГўВҖВҷd was such
Of Beatrice, and that saintly lamp,
Who had erewhile for me his station movГўВҖВҷd;
When thus by lady: ГўВҖВңGive thy wish free vent,
That it may issue, bearing true report
Of the mindГўВҖВҷs impress; not that aught thy words
May to our knowledge add, but to the end,
That thou mayst use thyself to own thy thirst
And men may mingle for thee when they hear.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO plant! from whence I spring! reverГўВҖВҷd and lovГўВҖВҷd!
Who soarГўВҖВҷst so high a pitch, thou seest as clear,
As earthly thought determines two obtuse
In one triangle not containГўВҖВҷd, so clear
Dost see contingencies, ere in themselves
Existent, looking at the point whereto
All times are present, I, the whilst I scalГўВҖВҷd
With Virgil the soul purifying mount,
And visited the nether world of woe,
Touching my future destiny have heard
Words grievous, though I feel me on all sides
Well squarГўВҖВҷd to fortuneГўВҖВҷs blows. Therefore my will
Were satisfied to know the lot awaits me,
The arrow, seen beforehand, slacks its flight.ГўВҖВқ

So said I to the brightness, which erewhile
To me had spoken, and my will declarГўВҖВҷd,
As Beatrice willГўВҖВҷd, explicitly.
Nor with oracular response obscure,
Such, as or ere the Lamb of God was slain,
BeguilГўВҖВҷd the credulous nations; but, in terms
Precise and unambiguous lore, replied
The spirit of paternal love, enshrinГўВҖВҷd,
Yet in his smile apparent; and thus spake:
ГўВҖВңContingency, unfolded not to view
Upon the tablet of your mortal mold,
Is all depicturГўВҖВҷd in theГўВҖВҷ eternal sight;
But hence deriveth not necessity,
More then the tall ship, hurried down the flood,
Doth from the vision, that reflects the scene.
From thence, as to the ear sweet harmony
From organ comes, so comes before mine eye
The time preparГўВҖВҷd for thee. Such as drivГўВҖВҷn out
From Athens, by his cruel stepdameГўВҖВҷs wiles,
Hippolytus departed, such must thou
Depart from Florence. This they wish, and this
Contrive, and will ere long effectuate, there,
Where gainful merchandize is made of Christ,
Throughout the livelong day. The common cry,
Will, as ГўВҖВҷt is ever wont, affix the blame
Unto the party injurГўВҖВҷd: but the truth
Shall, in the vengeance it dispenseth, find
A faithful witness. Thou shall leave each thing
BelovГўВҖВҷd most dearly: this is the first shaft
Shot from the bow of exile. Thou shalt prove
How salt the savour is of otherГўВҖВҷs bread,
How hard the passage to descend and climb
By otherГўВҖВҷs stairs, But that shall gall thee most
Will be the worthless and vile company,
With whom thou must be thrown into these straits.
For all ungrateful, impious all and mad,
Shall turn ГўВҖВҷgainst thee: but in a little while
Theirs and not thine shall be the crimsonГўВҖВҷd brow
Their course shall so evince their brutishness
TГўВҖВҷ have taГўВҖВҷen thy stand apart shall well become thee.

ГўВҖВңFirst refuge thou must find, first place of rest,
In the great LombardГўВҖВҷs courtesy, who bears
Upon the ladder perchГўВҖВҷd the sacred bird.
He shall behold thee with such kind regard,
That ГўВҖВҷtwixt ye two, the contrary to that
Which falls ГўВҖВҷtwixt other men, the granting shall
Forerun the asking. With him shalt thou see
That mortal, who was at his birth impress
So strongly from this star, that of his deeds
The nations shall take note. His unripe age
Yet holds him from observance; for these wheels
Only nine years have compass him about.
But, ere the Gascon practice on great Harry,
Sparkles of virtue shall shoot forth in him,
In equal scorn of labours and of gold.
His bounty shall be spread abroad so widely,
As not to let the tongues eГўВҖВҷen of his foes
Be idle in its praise. Look thou to him
And his beneficence: for he shall cause
Reversal of their lot to many people,
Rich men and beggars interchanging fortunes.
And thou shalt bear this written in thy soul
Of him, but tell it not;ГўВҖВқ and things he told
Incredible to those who witness them;
Then added: ГўВҖВңSo interpret thou, my son,
What hath been told thee.ГўВҖВ”Lo! the ambushment
That a few circling seasons hide for thee!
Yet envy not thy neighbours: time extends
Thy span beyond their treasonГўВҖВҷs chastisement.ГўВҖВқ

Soon, as the saintly spirit, by his silence,
Had shown the web, which I had stretehГўВҖВҷd for him
Upon the warp, was woven, I began,
As one, who in perplexity desires
Counsel of other, wise, benign and friendly:
ГўВҖВңMy father! well I mark how time spurs on
Toward me, ready to inflict the blow,
Which falls most heavily on him, who most
Abandoned himself. Therefore ГўВҖВҷt is good
I should forecast, that driven from the place
Most dear to me, I may not lose myself
All others by my song. Down through the world
Of infinite mourning, and along the mount
From whose fair height my ladyГўВҖВҷs eyes did lift me,
And after through this heavГўВҖВҷn from light to light,
Have I learnt that, which if I tell again,
It may with many woefully disrelish;
And, if I am a timid friend to truth,
I fear my life may perish among those,
To whom these days shall be of ancient date.ГўВҖВқ

The brightness, where enclosГўВҖВҷd the treasure smilГўВҖВҷd,
Which I had found there, first shone glisteningly,
Like to a golden mirror in the sun;
Next answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңConscience, dimmГўВҖВҷd or by its own
Or otherГўВҖВҷs shame, will feel thy saying sharp.
Thou, notwithstanding, all deceit removГўВҖВҷd,
See the whole vision be made manifest.
And let them wince who have their withers wrung.
What though, when tasted first, thy voice shall prove
Unwelcome, on digestion it will turn
To vital nourishment. The cry thou raisest,
Shall, as the wind doth, smite the proudest summits;
Which is of honour no light argument,
For this there only have been shown to thee,
Throughout these orbs, the mountain, and the deep,
Spirits, whom fame hath note of. For the mind
Of him, who hears, is loth to acquiesce
And fix its faith, unless the instance brought
Be palpable, and proof apparent urge.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XVIII


Now in his word, sole, ruminating, joyГўВҖВҷd
That blessed spirit; and I fed on mine,
Tempting the sweet with bitter: she meanwhile,
Who led me unto God, admonishГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңMuse
On other thoughts: bethink thee, that near Him
I dwell, who recompenseth every wrong.ГўВҖВқ

At the sweet sounds of comfort straight I turnГўВҖВҷd;
And, in the saintly eyes what love was seen,
I leave in silence here: nor through distrust
Of my words only, but that to such bliss
The mind remounts not without aid. Thus much
Yet may I speak; that, as I gazГўВҖВҷd on her,
Affection found no room for other wish.
While the everlasting pleasure, that did full
On Beatrice shine, with second view
From her fair countenance my gladdenГўВҖВҷd soul
Contented; vanquishing me with a beam
Of her soft smile, she spake: ГўВҖВңTurn thee, and list.
These eyes are not thy only Paradise.ГўВҖВқ

As here we sometimes in the looks may see
ThГўВҖВҷ affection markГўВҖВҷd, when that its sway hath taГўВҖВҷen
The spirit wholly; thus the hallowГўВҖВҷd light,
To whom I turnГўВҖВҷd, flashing, bewrayГўВҖВҷd its will
To talk yet further with me, and began:
ГўВҖВңOn this fifth lodgment of the tree, whose life
Is from its top, whose fruit is ever fair
And leaf unwithГўВҖВҷring, blessed spirits abide,
That were below, ere they arrivГўВҖВҷd in heavГўВҖВҷn,
So mighty in renown, as every muse
Might grace her triumph with them. On the horns
Look therefore of the cross: he, whom I name,
Shall there enact, as doth in summer cloud
Its nimble fire.ГўВҖВқ Along the cross I saw,
At the repeated name of Joshua,
A splendour gliding; nor, the word was said,
Ere it was done: then, at the naming saw
Of the great Maccabee, another move
With whirling speed; and gladness was the scourge
Unto that top. The next for Charlemagne
And for the peer Orlando, two my gaze
Pursued, intently, as the eye pursues
A falcon flying. Last, along the cross,
William, and Renard, and Duke Godfrey drew
My ken, and Robert Guiscard. And the soul,
Who spake with me among the other lights
Did move away, and mix; and with the choir
Of heavГўВҖВҷnly songsters provГўВҖВҷd his tuneful skill.

To Beatrice on my right l bent,
Looking for intimation or by word
Or act, what next behoovГўВҖВҷd: and did descry
Such mere effulgence in her eyes, such joy,
It past all former wont. And, as by sense
Of new delight, the man, who perseveres
In good deeds doth perceive from day to day
His virtue growing; I eГўВҖВҷen thus perceivГўВҖВҷd
Of my ascent, together with the heavГўВҖВҷn
The circuit widenГўВҖВҷd, noting the increase
Of beauty in that wonder. Like the change
In a brief moment on some maidenГўВҖВҷs cheek,
Which from its fairness doth discharge the weight
Of pudency, that stainГўВҖВҷd it; such in her,
And to mine eyes so sudden was the change,
Through silvery whiteness of that temperate star,
Whose sixth orb now enfolded us. I saw,
Within that Jovial cresset, the clear sparks
Of love, that reignГўВҖВҷd there, fashion to my view
Our language. And as birds, from river banks
Arisen, now in round, now lengthenГўВҖВҷd troop,
Array them in their flight, greeting, as seems,
Their new-found pastures; so, within the lights,
The saintly creatures flying, sang, and made
Now D. now I. now L. figurГўВҖВҷd IГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ air.

First, singing, to their notes they movГўВҖВҷd, then one
Becoming of these signs, a little while
Did rest them, and were mute. O nymph divine
Of Pegasean race! whose souls, which thou
InspirГўВҖВҷst, makГўВҖВҷst glorious and long-livГўВҖВҷd, as they
Cities and realms by thee! thou with thyself
Inform me; that I may set forth the shapes,
As fancy doth present them. Be thy power
DisplayГўВҖВҷd in this brief song. The characters,
Vocal and consonant, were five-fold seven.
In order each, as they appearГўВҖВҷd, I markГўВҖВҷd.
Diligite Justitiam, the first,
Both verb and noun all blazonГўВҖВҷd; and the extreme
Qui judicatis terram. In the M.
Of the fifth word they held their station,
Making the star seem silver streakГўВҖВҷd with gold.
And on the summit of the M. I saw
Descending other lights, that rested there,
Singing, methinks, their bliss and primal good.
Then, as at shaking of a lighted brand,
Sparkles innumerable on all sides
Rise scatterГўВҖВҷd, source of augury to thГўВҖВҷ unwise;
Thus more than thousand twinkling lustres hence
SeemГўВҖВҷd reascending, and a higher pitch
Some mounting, and some less; eГўВҖВҷen as the sun,
Which kindleth them, decreed. And when each one
Had settled in his place, the head and neck
Then saw I of an eagle, lively
GravГўВҖВҷd in that streaky fire. Who painteth there,
Hath none to guide him; of himself he guides;
And every line and texture of the nest
Doth own from him the virtue, fashions it.
The other bright beatitude, that seemГўВҖВҷd
Erewhile, with lilied crowning, well content
To over-canopy the M. movГўВҖВҷd forth,
Following gently the impress of the bird.

Sweet star! what glorious and thick-studded gems
DeclarГўВҖВҷd to me our justice on the earth
To be the effluence of that heavГўВҖВҷn, which thou,
Thyself a costly jewel, dost inlay!
Therefore I pray the Sovran Mind, from whom
Thy motion and thy virtue are begun,
That he would look from whence the fog doth rise,
To vitiate thy beam: so that once more
He may put forth his hand ГўВҖВҷgainst such, as drive
Their traffic in that sanctuary, whose walls
With miracles and martyrdoms were built.

Ye host of heaven! whose glory I survey l
O beg ye grace for those, that are on earth
All after ill example gone astray.
War once had for its instrument the sword:
But now ГўВҖВҷt is made, taking the bread away
Which the good Father locks from none. ГўВҖВ”And thou,
That writes but to cancel, think, that they,
Who for the vineyard, which thou wastest, died,
Peter and Paul live yet, and mark thy doings.
Thou hast good cause to cry, ГўВҖВңMy heart so cleaves
To him, that livГўВҖВҷd in solitude remote,
And from the wilds was draggГўВҖВҷd to martyrdom,
I wist not of the fisherman nor Paul.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XIX


Before my sight appearГўВҖВҷd, with open wings,
The beauteous image, in fruition sweet
Gladdening the thronged spirits. Each did seem
A little ruby, whereon so intense
The sun-beam glowГўВҖВҷd that to mine eyes it came
In clear refraction. And that, which next
Befalls me to portray, voice hath not utterГўВҖВҷd,
Nor hath ink written, nor in fantasy
Was eГўВҖВҷer conceivГўВҖВҷd. For I beheld and heard
The beak discourse; and, what intention formГўВҖВҷd
Of many, singly as of one express,
Beginning: ГўВҖВңFor that I was just and piteous,
l am exalted to this height of glory,
The which no wish exceeds: and there on earth
Have I my memory left, eГўВҖВҷen by the bad
Commended, while they leave its course untrod.ГўВҖВқ

Thus is one heat from many embers felt,
As in that image many were the loves,
And one the voice, that issued from them all.
Whence I address them: ГўВҖВңO perennial flowers
Of gladness everlasting! that exhale
In single breath your odours manifold!
Breathe now; and let the hunger be appeasГўВҖВҷd,
That with great craving long hath held my soul,
Finding no food on earth. This well I know,
That if there be in heavГўВҖВҷn a realm, that shows
In faithful mirror the celestial Justice,
Yours without veil reflects it. Ye discern
The heed, wherewith I do prepare myself
To hearken; ye the doubt that urges me
With such inveterate craving.ГўВҖВқ Straight I saw,
Like to a falcon issuing from the hood,
That rears his head, and claps him with his wings,
His beauty and his eagerness bewraying.
So saw I move that stately sign, with praise
Of grace divine inwoven and high song
Of inexpressive joy. ГўВҖВңHe,ГўВҖВқ it began,
ГўВҖВңWho turnГўВҖВҷd his compass on the worldГўВҖВҷs extreme,
And in that space so variously hath wrought,
Both openly, and in secret, in such wise
Could not through all the universe display
Impression of his glory, that the Word
Of his omniscience should not still remain
In infinite excess. In proof whereof,
He first through pride supplanted, who was sum
Of each created being, waited not
For light celestial, and abortive fell.
Whence needs each lesser nature is but scant
Receptacle unto that Good, which knows
No limit, measurГўВҖВҷd by itself alone.
Therefore your sight, of thГўВҖВҷ omnipresent Mind
A single beam, its origin must own
Surpassing far its utmost potency.
The ken, your world is gifted with, descends
In thГўВҖВҷ everlasting Justice as low down,
As eye doth in the sea; which though it mark
The bottom from the shore, in the wide main
Discerns it not; and neГўВҖВҷertheless it is,
But hidden through its deepness. Light is none,
Save that which cometh from the pure serene
Of neГўВҖВҷer disturbed ether: for the rest,
ГўВҖВҷTis darkness all, or shadow of the flesh,
Or else its poison. Here confess revealГўВҖВҷd
That covert, which hath hidden from thy search
The living justice, of the which thou madГўВҖВҷst
Such frequent question; for thou saidstГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳA man
Is born on IndusГўВҖВҷ banks, and none is there
Who speaks of Christ, nor who doth read nor write,
And all his inclinations and his acts,
As far as human reason sees, are good,
And he offendeth not in word or deed.
But unbaptizГўВҖВҷd he dies, and void of faith.
Where is the justice that condemns him? where
His blame, if he believeth not?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”What then,
And who art thou, that on the stool wouldst sit
To judge at distance of a thousand miles
With the short-sighted vision of a span?
To him, who subtilizes thus with me,
There would assuredly be room for doubt
Even to wonder, did not the safe word
Of scripture hold supreme authority.

ГўВҖВңO animals of clay! O spirits gross I
The primal will, that in itself is good,
Hath from itself, the chief Good, neГўВҖВҷer been movГўВҖВҷd.
Justice consists in consonance with it,
Derivable by no created good,
Whose very cause depends upon its beam.ГўВҖВқ

As on her nest the stork, that turns about
Unto her young, whom lately she hath fed,
While they with upward eyes do look on her;
So lifted I my gaze; and bending so
The ever-blessed image wavГўВҖВҷd its wings,
LabГўВҖВҷring with such deep counsel. Wheeling round
It warbled, and did say: ГўВҖВңAs are my notes
To thee, who understandГўВҖВҷst them not, such is
ThГўВҖВҷ eternal judgment unto mortal ken.ГўВҖВқ

Then still abiding in that ensign rangГўВҖВҷd,
Wherewith the Romans over-awed the world,
Those burning splendours of the Holy Spirit
Took up the strain; and thus it spake again:
ГўВҖВңNone ever hath ascended to this realm,
Who hath not a believer been in Christ,
Either before or after the blest limbs
Were nailГўВҖВҷd upon the wood. But lo! of those
Who call ГўВҖВҳChrist, Christ,ГўВҖВҷ there shall be many found,
In judgment, further off from him by far,
Than such, to whom his name was never known.
Christians like these the Ethiop shall condemn:
When that the two assemblages shall part;
One rich eternally, the other poor.

ГўВҖВңWhat may the Persians say unto your kings,
When they shall see that volume, in the which
All their dispraise is written, spread to view?
There amidst AlbertГўВҖВҷs works shall that be read,
Which will give speedy motion to the pen,
When Prague shall mourn her desolated realm.
There shall be read the woe, that he doth work
With his adulterate money on the Seine,
Who by the tusk will perish: there be read
The thirsting pride, that maketh fool alike
The English and Scot, impatient of their bound.
There shall be seen the SpaniardГўВҖВҷs luxury,
The delicate living there of the Bohemian,
Who still to worth has been a willing stranger.
The halter of Jerusalem shall see
A unit for his virtue, for his vices
No less a mark than million. He, who guards
The isle of fire by old Anchises honourГўВҖВҷd
Shall find his avarice there and cowardice;
And better to denote his littleness,
The writing must be letters maimГўВҖВҷd, that speak
Much in a narrow space. All there shall know
His uncle and his brotherГўВҖВҷs filthy doings,
Who so renownГўВҖВҷd a nation and two crowns
Have bastardized. And they, of Portugal
And Norway, there shall be exposГўВҖВҷd with him
Of Ratza, who hath counterfeited ill
The coin of Venice. O blest Hungary!
If thou no longer patiently abidГўВҖВҷst
Thy ill-entreating! and, O blest Navarre!
If with thy mountainous girdle thou wouldst arm thee
In earnest of that day, eГўВҖВҷen now are heard
Wailings and groans in FamagostaГўВҖВҷs streets
And NicosiaГўВҖВҷs, grudging at their beast,
Who keepeth even footing with the rest.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XX


When, disappearing, from our hemisphere,
The worldГўВҖВҷs enlightener vanishes, and day
On all sides wasteth, suddenly the sky,
Erewhile irradiate only with his beam,
Is yet again unfolded, putting forth
Innumerable lights wherein one shines.
Of such vicissitude in heaven I thought,
As the great sign, that marshaleth the world
And the worldГўВҖВҷs leaders, in the blessed beak
Was silent; for that all those living lights,
Waxing in splendour, burst forth into songs,
Such as from memory glide and fall away.

Sweet love! that dost apparel thee in smiles,
How lustrous was thy semblance in those sparkles,
Which merely are from holy thoughts inspirГўВҖВҷd!

After the precious and bright beaming stones,
That did ingem the sixth light, ceasГўВҖВҷd the chiming
Of their angelic bells; methought I heard
The murmuring of a river, that doth fall
From rock to rock transpicuous, making known
The richness of his spring-head: and as sound
Of cistern, at the fret-board, or of pipe,
Is, at the wind-hole, modulate and tunГўВҖВҷd;
Thus up the neck, as it were hollow, rose
That murmuring of the eagle, and forthwith
Voice there assumГўВҖВҷd, and thence along the beak
Issued in form of words, such as my heart
Did look for, on whose tables I inscribГўВҖВҷd them.

ГўВҖВңThe part in me, that sees, and bears the sun,,
In mortal eagles,ГўВҖВқ it began, ГўВҖВңmust now
Be noted steadfastly: for of the fires,
That figure me, those, glittering in mine eye,
Are chief of all the greatest. This, that shines
Midmost for pupil, was the same, who sang
The Holy SpiritГўВҖВҷs song, and bare about
The ark from town to town; now doth he know
The merit of his soul-impassionГўВҖВҷd strains
By their well-fitted guerdon. Of the five,
That make the circle of the vision, he
Who to the beak is nearest, comforted
The widow for her son: now doth he know
How dear he costeth not to follow Christ,
Both from experience of this pleasant life,
And of its opposite. He next, who follows
In the circumference, for the over arch,
By true repenting slackГўВҖВҷd the pace of death:
Now knoweth he, that the degrees of heavГўВҖВҷn
Alter not, when through pious prayer below
TodayГўВҖВҷs is made tomorrowГўВҖВҷs destiny.
The other following, with the laws and me,
To yield the shepherd room, passГўВҖВҷd oГўВҖВҷer to Greece,
From good intent producing evil fruit:
Now knoweth he, how all the ill, derivГўВҖВҷd
From his well doing, doth not helm him aught,
Though it have brought destruction on the world.
That, which thou seest in the under bow,
Was William, whom that land bewails, which weeps
For Charles and Frederick living: now he knows
How well is lovГўВҖВҷd in heavГўВҖВҷn the righteous king,
Which he betokens by his radiant seeming.
Who in the erring world beneath would deem,
That Trojan Ripheus in this round was set
Fifth of the saintly splendours? now he knows
Enough of that, which the world cannot see,
The grace divine, albeit eГўВҖВҷen his sight
Reach not its utmost depth.ГўВҖВқ Like to the lark,
That warbling in the air expatiates long,
Then, trilling out his last sweet melody,
Drops satiate with the sweetness; such appearГўВҖВҷd
That image stampt by theГўВҖВҷ everlasting pleasure,
Which fashions like itself all lovely things.

I, though my doubting were as manifest,
As is through glass the hue that mantles it,
In silence waited not: for to my lips
ГўВҖВңWhat things are these?ГўВҖВқ involuntary rushГўВҖВҷd,
And forcГўВҖВҷd a passage out: whereat I markГўВҖВҷd
A sudden lightening and new revelry.
The eye was kindled: and the blessed sign
No more to keep me wondГўВҖВҷring and suspense,
Replied: ГўВҖВңI see that thou believГўВҖВҷst these things,
Because I tell them, but discernГўВҖВҷst not how;
So that thy knowledge waits not on thy faith:
As one who knows the name of thing by rote,
But is a stranger to its properties,
Till otherГўВҖВҷs tongue reveal them. Fervent love
And lively hope with violence assail
The kingdom of the heavens, and overcome
The will of the Most high; not in such sort
As man prevails oГўВҖВҷer man; but conquers it,
Because ГўВҖВҷt is willing to be conquerГўВҖВҷd, still,
Though conquerГўВҖВҷd, by its mercy conquering.

ГўВҖВңThose, in the eye who live the first and fifth,
Cause thee to marvel, in that thou beholdГўВҖВҷst
The region of the angels deckГўВҖВҷd with them.
They quitted not their bodies, as thou deemГўВҖВҷst,
Gentiles but Christians, in firm rooted faith,
This of the feet in future to be piercГўВҖВҷd,
That of feet nailГўВҖВҷd already to the cross.
One from the barrier of the dark abyss,
Where never any with good will returns,
Came back unto his bones. Of lively hope
Such was the meed; of lively hope, that wingГўВҖВҷd
The prayers sent up to God for his release,
And put power into them to bend his will.
The glorious Spirit, of whom I speak to thee,
A little while returning to the flesh,
BelievГўВҖВҷd in him, who had the means to help,
And, in believing, nourishГўВҖВҷd such a flame
Of holy love, that at the second death
He was made sharer in our gamesome mirth.
The other, through the riches of that grace,
Which from so deep a fountain doth distil,
As never eye created saw its rising,
PlacГўВҖВҷd all his love below on just and right:
Wherefore of grace God opГўВҖВҷd in him the eye
To the redemption of mankind to come;
Wherein believing, he endurГўВҖВҷd no more
The filth of paganism, and for their ways
RebukГўВҖВҷd the stubborn nations. The three nymphs,
Whom at the right wheel thou beheldst advancing,
Were sponsors for him more than thousand years
Before baptizing. O how far removГўВҖВҷd,
Predestination! is thy root from such
As see not the First cause entire: and ye,
O mortal men! be wary how ye judge:
For we, who see our Maker, know not yet
The number of the chosen: and esteem
Such scantiness of knowledge our delight:
For all our good is in that primal good
Concentrate, and GodГўВҖВҷs will and ours are one.ГўВҖВқ

So, by that form divine, was givГўВҖВҷn to me
Sweet medicine to clear and strengthen sight,
And, as one handling skillfully the harp,
Attendant on some skilful songsterГўВҖВҷs voice
Bids the chords vibrate, and therein the song
Acquires more pleasure; so, the whilst it spake,
It doth remember me, that I beheld
The pair of blessed luminaries move.
Like the accordant twinkling of two eyes,
Their beamy circlets, dancing to the sounds.




CANTO XXI


Again mine eyes were fixГўВҖВҷd on Beatrice,
And with mine eyes my soul, that in her looks
Found all contentment. Yet no smile she wore
And, ГўВҖВңDid I smile,ГўВҖВқ quoth she, ГўВҖВңthou wouldst be straight
Like Semele when into ashes turnГўВҖВҷd:
For, mounting these eternal palace-stairs,
My beauty, which the loftier it climbs,
As thou hast noted, still doth kindle more,
So shines, that, were no tempГўВҖВҷring interposГўВҖВҷd,
Thy mortal puissance would from its rays
Shrink, as the leaf doth from the thunderbolt.
Into the seventh splendour are we wafted,
That underneath the burning lionГўВҖВҷs breast
Beams, in this hour, commingled with his might,
Thy mind be with thine eyes: and in them mirrorГўВҖВҷd
The shape, which in this mirror shall be shown.ГўВҖВқ
Whoso can deem, how fondly I had fed
My sight upon her blissful countenance,
May know, when to new thoughts I changГўВҖВҷd, what joy
To do the bidding of my heavГўВҖВҷnly guide:
In equal balance poising either weight.

Within the crystal, which records the name,
(As its remoter circle girds the world)
Of that lovГўВҖВҷd monarch, in whose happy reign
No ill had power to harm, I saw rearГўВҖВҷd up,
In colour like to sun-illuminГўВҖВҷd gold.

A ladder, which my ken pursued in vain,
So lofty was the summit; down whose steps
I saw the splendours in such multitude
Descending, evГўВҖВҷry light in heavГўВҖВҷn, methought,
Was shed thence. As the rooks, at dawn of day
Bestirring them to dry their feathers chill,
Some speed their way a-field, and homeward some,
Returning, cross their flight, while some abide
And wheel around their airy lodge; so seemГўВҖВҷd
That glitterance, wafted on alternate wing,
As upon certain stair it met, and clashГўВҖВҷd
Its shining. And one lingГўВҖВҷring near us, waxГўВҖВҷd
So bright, that in my thought: said: ГўВҖВңThe love,
Which this betokens me, admits no doubt.ГўВҖВқ

Unwillingly from question I refrain,
To her, by whom my silence and my speech
Are orderГўВҖВҷd, looking for a sign: whence she,
Who in the sight of Him, that seeth all,
Saw wherefore I was silent, prompted me
TГўВҖВҷ indulge the fervent wish; and I began:
ГўВҖВңI am not worthy, of my own desert,
That thou shouldst answer me; but for her sake,
Who hath vouchsafГўВҖВҷd my asking, spirit blest!
That in thy joy art shrouded! say the cause,
Which bringeth thee so near: and wherefore, say,
Doth the sweet symphony of Paradise
Keep silence here, pervading with such sounds
Of rapt devotion evГўВҖВҷry lower sphere?ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңMortal art thou in hearing as in sight;ГўВҖВқ
Was the reply: ГўВҖВңand what forbade the smile
Of Beatrice interrupts our song.
Only to yield thee gladness of my voice,
And of the light that vests me, I thus far
Descend these hallowГўВҖВҷd steps: not that more love
Invites me; for lo! there aloft, as much
Or more of love is witnessГўВҖВҷd in those flames:
But such my lot by charity assignГўВҖВҷd,
That makes us ready servants, as thou seest,
To execute the counsel of the Highest.
ГўВҖВңThat in this court,ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңO sacred lamp!
Love no compulsion needs, but follows free
ThГўВҖВҷ eternal Providence, I well discern:
This harder find to deem, why of thy peers
Thou only to this office wert foredoomГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ
I had not ended, when, like rapid mill,
Upon its centre whirlГўВҖВҷd the light; and then
The love, that did inhabit there, replied:
ГўВҖВңSplendour eternal, piercing through these folds,
Its virtue to my vision knits, and thus
Supported, lifts me so above myself,
That on the sovГўВҖВҷran essence, which it wells from,
I have the power to gaze: and hence the joy,
Wherewith I sparkle, equaling with my blaze
The keenness of my sight. But not the soul,
That is in heavГўВҖВҷn most lustrous, nor the seraph
That hath his eyes most fixГўВҖВҷd on God, shall solve
What thou hast askГўВҖВҷd: for in thГўВҖВҷ abyss it lies
Of thГўВҖВҷ everlasting statute sunk so low,
That no created ken may fathom it.
And, to the mortal world when thou returnГўВҖВҷst,
Be this reported; that none henceforth dare
Direct his footsteps to so dread a bourn.
The mind, that here is radiant, on the earth
Is wrapt in mist. Look then if she may do,
Below, what passeth her ability,
When she is taГўВҖВҷen to heavГўВҖВҷn.ГўВҖВқ By words like these
AdmonishГўВҖВҷd, I the question urgГўВҖВҷd no more;
And of the spirit humbly sued alone
TГўВҖВҷ instruct me of its state. ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷTwixt either shore
Of Italy, nor distant from thy land,
A stony ridge ariseth, in such sort,
The thunder doth not lift his voice so high,
They call it Catria: at whose foot a cell
Is sacred to the lonely Eremite,
For worship set apart and holy rites.ГўВҖВқ
A third time thus it spake; then added: ГўВҖВңThere
So firmly to GodГўВҖВҷs service I adherГўВҖВҷd,
That with no costlier viands than the juice
Of olives, easily I passГўВҖВҷd the heats
Of summer and the winter frosts, content
In heavГўВҖВҷn-ward musings. Rich were the returns
And fertile, which that cloister once was usГўВҖВҷd
To render to these heavens: now ГўВҖВҷt is fallГўВҖВҷn
Into a waste so empty, that ere long
Detection must lay bare its vanity
Pietro Damiano there was I yclept:
Pietro the sinner, when before I dwelt
Beside the Adriatic, in the house
Of our blest Lady. Near upon my close
Of mortal life, through much importuning
I was constrainГўВҖВҷd to wear the hat that still
From bad to worse it shifted.ГўВҖВ”Cephas came;
He came, who was the Holy SpiritГўВҖВҷs vessel,
Barefoot and lean, eating their bread, as chancГўВҖВҷd,
At the first table. Modern ShepherdГўВҖВҷs need
Those who on either hand may prop and lead them,
So burly are they grown: and from behind
Others to hoist them. Down the palfreyГўВҖВҷs sides
Spread their broad mantles, so as both the beasts
Are coverГўВҖВҷd with one skin. O patience! thou
That lookst on this and doth endure so long.ГўВҖВқ
I at those accents saw the splendours down
From step to step alight, and wheel, and wax,
Each circuiting, more beautiful. Round this
They came, and stayГўВҖВҷd them; uttered them a shout
So loud, it hath no likeness here: nor I
Wist what it spake, so deafГўВҖВҷning was the thunder.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXII


Astounded, to the guardian of my steps
I turnГўВҖВҷd me, like the chill, who always runs
Thither for succour, where he trusteth most,
And she was like the mother, who her son
Beholding pale and breathless, with her voice
Soothes him, and he is cheerГўВҖВҷd; for thus she spake,
Soothing me: ГўВҖВңKnowГўВҖВҷst not thou, thou art in heavГўВҖВҷn?
And knowГўВҖВҷst not thou, whatever is in heavГўВҖВҷn,
Is holy, and that nothing there is done
But is done zealously and well? Deem now,
What change in thee the song, and what my smile
had wrought, since thus the shout had powГўВҖВҷr to move thee.
In which couldst thou have understood their prayers,
The vengeance were already known to thee,
Which thou must witness ere thy mortal hour,
The sword of heavГўВҖВҷn is not in haste to smite,
Nor yet doth linger, save unto his seeming,
Who in desire or fear doth look for it.
But elsewhere now l bid thee turn thy view;
So shalt thou many a famous spirit behold.ГўВҖВқ
Mine eyes directing, as she willГўВҖВҷd, I saw
A hundred little spheres, that fairer grew
By interchange of splendour. I remainГўВҖВҷd,
As one, who fearful of oГўВҖВҷer-much presuming,
Abates in him the keenness of desire,
Nor dares to question, when amid those pearls,
One largest and most lustrous onward drew,
That it might yield contentment to my wish;
And from within it these the sounds I heard.

ГўВҖВңIf thou, like me, beheldst the charity
That burns amongst us, what thy mind conceives,
Were utterГўВҖВҷd. But that, ere the lofty bound
Thou reach, expectance may not weary thee,
I will make answer even to the thought,
Which thou hast such respect of. In old days,
That mountain, at whose side Cassino rests,
Was on its height frequented by a race
Deceived and ill disposГўВҖВҷd: and I it was,
Who thither carried first the name of Him,
Who brought the soul-subliming truth to man.
And such a speeding grace shone over me,
That from their impious worship I reclaimГўВҖВҷd
The dwellers round about, who with the world
Were in delusion lost. These other flames,
The spirits of men contemplative, were all
EnlivenГўВҖВҷd by that warmth, whose kindly force
Gives birth to flowers and fruits of holiness.
Here is Macarius; Romoaldo here:
And here my brethren, who their steps refrainГўВҖВҷd
Within the cloisters, and held firm their heart.ГўВҖВқ

I answГўВҖВҷring, thus; ГўВҖВңThy gentle words and kind,
And this the cheerful semblance, I behold
Not unobservant, beaming in ye all,
Have raisГўВҖВҷd assurance in me, wakening it
Full-blossomГўВҖВҷd in my bosom, as a rose
Before the sun, when the consummate flower
Has spread to utmost amplitude. Of thee
Therefore entreat I, father! to declare
If I may gain such favour, as to gaze
Upon thine image, by no covering veilГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBrother!ГўВҖВқ he thus rejoinГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңin the last sphere
Expect completion of thy lofty aim,
For there on each desire completion waits,
And there on mine: where every aim is found
Perfect, entire, and for fulfillment ripe.
There all things are as they have ever been:
For space is none to bound, nor pole divides,
Our ladder reaches even to that clime,
And so at giddy distance mocks thy view.
Thither the Patriarch Jacob saw it stretch
Its topmost round, when it appearГўВҖВҷd to him
With angels laden. But to mount it now
None lifts his foot from earth: and hence my rule
Is left a profitless stain upon the leaves;
The walls, for abbey rearГўВҖВҷd, turned into dens,
The cowls to sacks choakГўВҖВҷd up with musty meal.
Foul usury doth not more lift itself
Against GodГўВҖВҷs pleasure, than that fruit which makes
The hearts of monks so wanton: for whateГўВҖВҷer
Is in the churchГўВҖВҷs keeping, all pertains.
To such, as sue for heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs sweet sake, and not
To those who in respect of kindred claim,
Or on more vile allowance. Mortal flesh
Is grown so dainty, good beginnings last not
From the oakГўВҖВҷs birth, unto the acornГўВҖВҷs setting.
His convent Peter founded without gold
Or silver; I with prayГўВҖВҷrs and fasting mine;
And Francis his in meek humility.
And if thou note the point, whence each proceeds,
Then look what it hath errГўВҖВҷd to, thou shalt find
The white grown murky. Jordan was turnГўВҖВҷd back;
And a less wonder, then the refluent sea,
May at GodГўВҖВҷs pleasure work amendment here.ГўВҖВқ

So saying, to his assembly back he drew:
And they together clusterГўВҖВҷd into one,
Then all rollГўВҖВҷd upward like an eddying wind.

The sweet dame beckonГўВҖВҷd me to follow them:
And, by that influence only, so prevailГўВҖВҷd
Over my nature, that no natural motion,
Ascending or descending here below,
Had, as I mounted, with my pennon vied.

So, reader, as my hope is to return
Unto the holy triumph, for the which
I ofttimes wail my sins, and smite my breast,
Thou hadst been longer drawing out and thrusting
Thy finger in the fire, than I was, ere
The sign, that followeth Taurus, I beheld,
And enterГўВҖВҷd its precinct. O glorious stars!
O light impregnate with exceeding virtue!
To whom whateГўВҖВҷer of genius lifteth me
Above the vulgar, grateful I refer;
With ye the parent of all mortal life
Arose and set, when I did first inhale
The Tuscan air; and afterward, when grace
VouchsafГўВҖВҷd me entrance to the lofty wheel
That in its orb impels ye, fate decreed
My passage at your clime. To you my soul
Devoutly sighs, for virtue even now
To meet the hard emprize that draws me on.

ГўВҖВңThou art so near the sum of blessedness,ГўВҖВқ
Said Beatrice, ГўВҖВңthat behooves thy ken
Be vigilant and clear. And, to this end,
Or even thou advance thee further, hence
Look downward, and contemplate, what a world
Already stretched under our feet there lies:
So as thy heart may, in its blithest mood,
Present itself to the triumphal throng,
Which through theГўВҖВҷ etherial concave comes rejoicing.ГўВҖВқ

I straight obeyГўВҖВҷd; and with mine eye returnГўВҖВҷd
Through all the seven spheres, and saw this globe
So pitiful of semblance, that perforce
It moved my smiles: and him in truth I hold
For wisest, who esteems it least: whose thoughts
Elsewhere are fixГўВҖВҷd, him worthiest call and best.
I saw the daughter of Latona shine
Without the shadow, whereof late I deemГўВҖВҷd
That dense and rare were cause. Here I sustainГўВҖВҷd
The visage, Hyperion! of thy sun;
And markГўВҖВҷd, how near him with their circle, round
Move Maia and Dione; here discernГўВҖВҷd
JoveГўВҖВҷs tempering ГўВҖВҷtwixt his sire and son; and hence
Their changes and their various aspects
Distinctly scannГўВҖВҷd. Nor might I not descry
Of all the seven, how bulky each, how swift;
Nor of their several distances not learn.
This petty area (oГўВҖВҷer the which we stride
So fiercely), as along the eternal twins
I wound my way, appearГўВҖВҷd before me all,
Forth from the havens stretchГўВҖВҷd unto the hills.
Then to the beauteous eyes mine eyes returnГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO XXIII


EГўВҖВҷen as the bird, who midst the leafy bower
Has, in her nest, sat darkling through the night,
With her sweet brood, impatient to descry
Their wished looks, and to bring home their food,
In the fond quest unconscious of her toil:
She, of the time prevenient, on the spray,
That overhangs their couch, with wakeful gaze
Expects the sun; nor ever, till the dawn,
Removeth from the east her eager ken;
So stood the dame erect, and bent her glance
Wistfully on that region, where the sun
Abateth most his speed; that, seeing her
Suspense and wandГўВҖВҷring, I became as one,
In whom desire is wakenГўВҖВҷd, and the hope
Of somewhat new to come fills with delight.

Short space ensued; I was not held, I say,
Long in expectance, when I saw the heavГўВҖВҷn
Wax more and more resplendent; and, ГўВҖВңBehold,ГўВҖВқ
Cried Beatrice, ГўВҖВңthe triumphal hosts
Of Christ, and all the harvest reapГўВҖВҷd at length
Of thy ascending up these spheres.ГўВҖВқ MeseemГўВҖВҷd,
That, while she spake her image all did burn,
And in her eyes such fullness was of joy,
And I am fain to pass unconstrued by.

As in the calm full moon, when Trivia smiles,
In peerless beauty, ГўВҖВҷmid thГўВҖВҷ eternal nympus,
That paint through all its gulfs the blue profound
In bright pre-eminence so saw I there,
OГўВҖВҷer million lamps a sun, from whom all drew
Their radiance as from ours the starry train:
And through the living light so lustrous glowГўВҖВҷd
The substance, that my ken endurГўВҖВҷd it not.

O Beatrice! sweet and precious guide!
Who cheerГўВҖВҷd me with her comfortable words!
ГўВҖВңAgainst the virtue, that oГўВҖВҷerpowГўВҖВҷreth thee,
Avails not to resist. Here is the might,
And here the wisdom, which did open lay
The path, that had been yearned for so long,
Betwixt the heavГўВҖВҷn and earth.ГўВҖВқ Like to the fire,
That, in a cloud imprisonГўВҖВҷd doth break out
Expansive, so that from its womb enlargГўВҖВҷd,
It falleth against nature to the ground;
Thus in that heavГўВҖВҷnly banqueting my soul
Outgrew herself; and, in the transport lost.
Holds now remembrance none of what she was.

ГўВҖВңOpe thou thine eyes, and mark me: thou hast seen
Things, that empower thee to sustain my smile.ГўВҖВқ

I was as one, when a forgotten dream
Doth come across him, and he strives in vain
To shape it in his fantasy again,
Whenas that gracious boon was profferГўВҖВҷd me,
Which never may be cancelГўВҖВҷd from the book,
Wherein the past is written. Now were all
Those tongues to sound, that have on sweetest milk
Of Polyhymnia and her sisters fed
And fattenГўВҖВҷd, not with all their help to boot,
Unto the thousandth parcel of the truth,
My song might shadow forth that saintly smile,
flow merely in her saintly looks it wrought.
And with such figuring of Paradise
The sacred strain must leap, like one, that meets
A sudden interruption to his road.
But he, who thinks how ponderous the theme,
And that ГўВҖВҷt is lain upon a mortal shoulder,
May pardon, if it tremble with the burden.
The track, our ventrous keel must furrow, brooks
No unribbГўВҖВҷd pinnace, no self-sparing pilot.

ГўВҖВңWhy doth my face,ГўВҖВқ said Beatrice, ГўВҖВңthus
Enamour thee, as that thou dost not turn
Unto the beautiful garden, blossoming
Beneath the rays of Christ? Here is the rose,
Wherein the word divine was made incarnate;
And here the lilies, by whose odour known
The way of life was followГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ Prompt I heard
Her bidding, and encounter once again
The strife of aching vision. As erewhile,
Through glance of sunlight, streamГўВҖВҷd through broken cloud,
Mine eyes a flower-besprinkled mead have seen,
Though veilГўВҖВҷd themselves in shade; so saw I there
Legions of splendours, on whom burning rays
Shed lightnings from above, yet saw I not
The fountain whence they flowГўВҖВҷd. O gracious virtue!
Thou, whose broad stamp is on them, higher up
Thou didst exalt thy glory to give room
To my oГўВҖВҷerlabourГўВҖВҷd sight: when at the name
Of that fair flower, whom duly I invoke
Both morn and eve, my soul, with all her might
Collected, on the goodliest ardour fixГўВҖВҷd.
And, as the bright dimensions of the star
In heavГўВҖВҷn excelling, as once here on earth
Were, in my eyeballs lively portrayГўВҖВҷd,
Lo! from within the sky a cresset fell,
Circling in fashion of a diadem,
And girt the star, and hovГўВҖВҷring round it wheelГўВҖВҷd.

Whatever melody sounds sweetest here,
And draws the spirit most unto itself,
Might seem a rent cloud when it grates the thunder,
ComparГўВҖВҷd unto the sounding of that lyre,
Wherewith the goodliest sapphire, that inlays
The floor of heavГўВҖВҷn, was crownГўВҖВҷd. ГўВҖВңAngelic Love,
I am, who thus with hovГўВҖВҷring flight enwheel
The lofty rapture from that womb inspirГўВҖВҷd,
Where our desire did dwell: and round thee so,
Lady of HeavГўВҖВҷn! will hover; long as thou
Thy Son shalt follow, and diviner joy
Shall from thy presence gild the highest sphere.ГўВҖВқ

Such close was to the circling melody:
And, as it ended, all the other lights
Took up the strain, and echoed MaryГўВҖВҷs name.

The robe, that with its regal folds enwraps
The world, and with the nearer breath of God
Doth burn and quiver, held so far retirГўВҖВҷd
Its inner hem and skirting over us,
That yet no glimmer of its majesty
Had streamГўВҖВҷd unto me: therefore were mine eyes
Unequal to pursue the crowned flame,
That rose and sought its natal seed of fire;
And like to babe, that stretches forth its arms
For very eagerness towards the breast,
After the milk is taken; so outstretchГўВҖВҷd
Their wavy summits all the fervent band,
Through zealous love to Mary: then in view
There halted, and ГўВҖВңRegina CoeliГўВҖВқ sang
So sweetly, the delight hath left me never.

O what oГўВҖВҷerflowing plenty is up-pilГўВҖВҷd
In those rich-laden coffers, which below
SowГўВҖВҷd the good seed, whose harvest now they keep.

Here are the treasures tasted, that with tears
Were in the Babylonian exile won,
When gold had failГўВҖВҷd them. Here in synod high
Of ancient council with the new convenГўВҖВҷd,
Under the Son of Mary and of God,
Victorious he his mighty triumph holds,
To whom the keys of glory were assignГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO XXIV


ГўВҖВңO ye! in chosen fellowship advancГўВҖВҷd
To the great supper of the blessed Lamb,
Whereon who feeds hath every wish fulfillГўВҖВҷd!
If to this man through GodГўВҖВҷs grace be vouchsafГўВҖВҷd
Foretaste of that, which from your table falls,
Or ever death his fated term prescribe;
Be ye not heedless of his urgent will;
But may some influence of your sacred dews
Sprinkle him. Of the fount ye alway drink,
Whence flows what most he craves.ГўВҖВқ Beatrice spake,
And the rejoicing spirits, like to spheres
On firm-set poles revolving, trailГўВҖВҷd a blaze
Of comet splendour; and as wheels, that wind
Their circles in the horologe, so work
The stated rounds, that to thГўВҖВҷ observant eye
The first seems still, and, as it flew, the last;
EГўВҖВҷen thus their carols weaving variously,
They by the measure pacГўВҖВҷd, or swift, or slow,
Made me to rate the riches of their joy.

From that, which I did note in beauty most
Excelling, saw I issue forth a flame
So bright, as none was left more goodly there.
Round Beatrice thrice it wheelГўВҖВҷd about,
With so divine a song, that fancyГўВҖВҷs ear
Records it not; and the pen passeth on
And leaves a blank: for that our mortal speech,
Nor eГўВҖВҷen the inward shaping of the brain,
Hath colours fine enough to trace such folds.

ГўВҖВңO saintly sister mine! thy prayer devout
Is with so vehement affection urgГўВҖВҷd,
Thou dost unbind me from that beauteous sphere.ГўВҖВқ

Such were the accents towards my lady breathГўВҖВҷd
From that blest ardour, soon as it was stayГўВҖВҷd:
To whom she thus: ГўВҖВңO everlasting light
Of him, within whose mighty grasp our Lord
Did leave the keys, which of this wondrous bliss
He bare below! tent this man, as thou wilt,
With lighter probe or deep, touching the faith,
By the which thou didst on the billows walk.
If he in love, in hope, and in belief,
Be steadfast, is not hid from thee: for thou
Hast there thy ken, where all things are beheld
In liveliest portraiture. But since true faith
Has peopled this fair realm with citizens,
Meet is, that to exalt its glory more,
Thou in his audience shouldst thereof discourse.ГўВҖВқ

Like to the bachelor, who arms himself,
And speaks not, till the master have proposГўВҖВҷd
The question, to approve, and not to end it;
So I, in silence, armГўВҖВҷd me, while she spake,
Summoning up each argument to aid;
As was behooveful for such questioner,
And such profession: ГўВҖВңAs good Christian ought,
Declare thee, What is faith?ГўВҖВқ Whereat I raisГўВҖВҷd
My forehead to the light, whence this had breathГўВҖВҷd,
Then turnГўВҖВҷd to Beatrice, and in her looks
Approval met, that from their inmost fount
I should unlock the waters. ГўВҖВңMay the grace,
That giveth me the captain of the church
For confessor,ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңvouchsafe to me
Apt utterance for my thoughts!ГўВҖВқ then added: ГўВҖВңSire!
EГўВҖВҷen as set down by the unerring style
Of thy dear brother, who with thee conspirГўВҖВҷd
To bring Rome in unto the way of life,
Faith of things hopГўВҖВҷd is substance, and the proof
Of things not seen; and herein doth consist
Methinks its essence,ГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңRightly hast thou deemГўВҖВҷd,ГўВҖВқ
Was answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңif thou well discern, why first
He hath definГўВҖВҷd it, substance, and then proof.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe deep things,ГўВҖВқ I replied, ГўВҖВңwhich here I scan
Distinctly, are below from mortal eye
So hidden, they have in belief alone
Their being, on which credence hope sublime
Is built; and therefore substance it intends.
And inasmuch as we must needs infer
From such belief our reasoning, all respect
To other view excluded, hence of proof
ThГўВҖВҷ intention is derivГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ Forthwith I heard:
ГўВҖВңIf thus, whateГўВҖВҷer by learning men attain,
Were understood, the sophist would want room
To exercise his wit.ГўВҖВқ So breathГўВҖВҷd the flame
Of love: then added: ГўВҖВңCurrent is the coin
Thou utterГўВҖВҷst, both in weight and in alloy.
But tell me, if thou hast it in thy purse.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңEven so glittering and so round,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңI not a whit misdoubt of its assay.ГўВҖВқ

Next issued from the deep imbosomГўВҖВҷd splendour:
ГўВҖВңSay, whence the costly jewel, on the which
Is founded every virtue, came to thee.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңThe flood,ГўВҖВқ I answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңfrom the Spirit of God
RainГўВҖВҷd down upon the ancient bond and new,ГўВҖВ”
Here is the reasГўВҖВҷning, that convinceth me
So feelingly, each argument beside
Seems blunt and forceless in comparison.ГўВҖВқ
Then heard I: ГўВҖВңWherefore holdest thou that each,
The elder proposition and the new,
Which so persuade thee, are the voice of heavГўВҖВҷn?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThe works, that followГўВҖВҷd, evidence their truth;ГўВҖВқ
I answerГўВҖВҷd: ГўВҖВңNature did not make for these
The iron hot, or on her anvil mould them.ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңWho voucheth to thee of the works themselves,ГўВҖВқ
Was the reply, ГўВҖВңthat they in very deed
Are that they purport? None hath sworn so to thee.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThat all the world,ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңshould have been turnГўВҖВҷd
To Christian, and no miracle been wrought,
Would in itself be such a miracle,
The rest were not an hundredth part so great.
EГўВҖВҷen thou wentst forth in poverty and hunger
To set the goodly plant, that from the vine,
It once was, now is grown unsightly bramble.ГўВҖВқ
That ended, through the high celestial court
Resounded all the spheres. ГўВҖВңPraise we one God!ГўВҖВқ
In song of most unearthly melody.
And when that Worthy thus, from branch to branch,
Examining, had led me, that we now
ApproachГўВҖВҷd the topmost bough, he straight resumГўВҖВҷd;
ГўВҖВңThe grace, that holds sweet dalliance with thy soul,
So far discreetly hath thy lips unclosГўВҖВҷd
That, whatsoeГўВҖВҷer has past them, I commend.
Behooves thee to express, what thou believГўВҖВҷst,
The next, and whereon thy belief hath grown.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңO saintly sire and spirit!ГўВҖВқ I began,
ГўВҖВңWho seest that, which thou didst so believe,
As to outstrip feet younger than thine own,
Toward the sepulchre? thy will is here,
That I the tenour of my creed unfold;
And thou the cause of it hast likewise askГўВҖВҷd.
And I reply: I in one God believe,
One sole eternal Godhead, of whose love
All heavГўВҖВҷn is movГўВҖВҷd, himself unmovГўВҖВҷd the while.
Nor demonstration physical alone,
Or more intelligential and abstruse,
Persuades me to this faith; but from that truth
It cometh to me rather, which is shed
Through Moses, the rapt Prophets, and the Psalms.
The Gospel, and that ye yourselves did write,
When ye were gifted of the Holy Ghost.
In three eternal Persons I believe,
Essence threefold and one, mysterious league
Of union absolute, which, many a time,
The word of gospel lore upon my mind
Imprints: and from this germ, this firstling spark,
The lively flame dilates, and like heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs star
Doth glitter in me.ГўВҖВқ As the master hears,
Well pleasГўВҖВҷd, and then enfoldeth in his arms
The servant, who hath joyful tidings brought,
And having told the errand keeps his peace;
Thus benediction uttering with song
Soon as my peace I held, compassГўВҖВҷd me thrice
The apostolic radiance, whose behest
Had opГўВҖВҷd lips; so well their answer pleasГўВҖВҷd.




CANTO XXV


If eГўВҖВҷer the sacred poem that hath made
Both heavГўВҖВҷn and earth copartners in its toil,
And with lean abstinence, through many a year,
Faded my brow, be destinГўВҖВҷd to prevail
Over the cruelty, which bars me forth
Of the fair sheep-fold, where a sleeping lamb
The wolves set on and fain had worried me,
With other voice and fleece of other grain
I shall forthwith return, and, standing up
At my baptismal font, shall claim the wreath
Due to the poetГўВҖВҷs temples: for I there
First enterГўВҖВҷd on the faith which maketh souls
Acceptable to God: and, for its sake,
Peter had then circled my forehead thus.

Next from the squadron, whence had issued forth
The first fruit of ChristГўВҖВҷs vicars on the earth,
Toward us movГўВҖВҷd a light, at view whereof
My Lady, full of gladness, spake to me:
ГўВҖВңLo! lo! behold the peer of mickle might,
That makes Falicia throngГўВҖВҷd with visitants!ГўВҖВқ

As when the ring-dove by his mate alights,
In circles each about the other wheels,
And murmuring cooes his fondness; thus saw I
One, of the other great and glorious prince,
With kindly greeting hailГўВҖВҷd, extolling both
Their heavenly banqueting; but when an end
Was to their gratulation, silent, each,
Before me sat they down, so burning bright,
I could not look upon them. Smiling then,
Beatrice spake: ГўВҖВңO life in glory shrinГўВҖВҷd!ГўВҖВқ
Who didst the largess of our kingly court
Set down with faithful pen! let now thy voice
Of hope the praises in this height resound.
For thou, who figurГўВҖВҷst them in shapes, as clear,
As Jesus stood before thee, well canГўВҖВҷst speak them.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңLift up thy head, and be thou strong in trust:
For that, which hither from the mortal world
Arriveth, must be ripenГўВҖВҷd in our beam.ГўВҖВқ

Such cheering accents from the second flame
AssurГўВҖВҷd me; and mine eyes I lifted up
Unto the mountains that had bowГўВҖВҷd them late
With over-heavy burden. ГўВҖВңSith our Liege
Wills of his grace that thou, or ere thy death,
In the most secret council, with his lords
Shouldst be confronted, so that having viewГўВҖВҷd
The glories of our court, thou mayst therewith
Thyself, and all who hear, invigorate
With hope, that leads to blissful end; declare,
What is that hope, how it doth flourish in thee,
And whence thou hadst it?ГўВҖВқ Thus proceeding still,
The second light: and she, whose gentle love
My soaring pennons in that lofty flight
Escorted, thus preventing me, rejoinГўВҖВҷd:
Among her sons, not one more full of hope,
Hath the church militant: so ГўВҖВҷt is of him
Recorded in the sun, whose liberal orb
Enlighteneth all our tribe: and ere his term
Of warfare, hence permitted he is come,
From Egypt to Jerusalem, to see.
The other points, both which thou hast inquirГўВҖВҷd,
Not for more knowledge, but that he may tell
How dear thou holdst the virtue, these to him
Leave I; for he may answer thee with ease,
And without boasting, so God give him grace.ГўВҖВқ
Like to the scholar, practisГўВҖВҷd in his task,
Who, willing to give proof of diligence,
Seconds his teacher gladly, ГўВҖВңHope,ГўВҖВқ said I,
ГўВҖВңIs of the joy to come a sure expectance,
ThГўВҖВҷ effect of grace divine and merit preceding.
This light from many a star visits my heart,
But flowГўВҖВҷd to me the first from him, who sang
The songs of the Supreme, himself supreme
Among his tuneful brethren. ГўВҖВҳLet all hope
In thee,ГўВҖВҷ so speak his anthem, ГўВҖВҳwho have known
Thy name;ГўВҖВҷ and with my faith who know not that?
From thee, the next, distilling from his spring,
In thine epistle, fell on me the drops
So plenteously, that I on others shower
The influence of their dew.ГўВҖВқ Whileas I spake,
A lamping, as of quick and vollied lightning,
Within the bosom of that mighty sheen,
PlayГўВҖВҷd tremulous; then forth these accents breathГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңLove for the virtue which attended me
EГўВҖВҷen to the palm, and issuing from the field,
Glows vigorous yet within me, and inspires
To ask of thee, whom also it delights;
What promise thou from hope in chief dost win.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңBoth scriptures, new and ancient,ГўВҖВқ I replyГўВҖВҷd;
ГўВҖВңPropose the mark (which even now I view)
For souls belovГўВҖВҷd of God. Isaias saith,

ГўВҖВҳThat, in their own land, each one must be clad
In twofold vesture; and their proper lands this delicious life.ГўВҖВҷ
In terms more full,
And clearer far, thy brother hath set forth
This revelation to us, where he tells
Of the white raiment destinГўВҖВҷd to the saints.ГўВҖВқ
And, as the words were ending, from above,
ГўВҖВңThey hope in thee,ГўВҖВқ first heard we cried: whereto
AnswerГўВҖВҷd the carols all. Amidst them next,
A light of so clear amplitude emergГўВҖВҷd,
That winterГўВҖВҷs month were but a single day,
Were such a crystal in the CancerГўВҖВҷs sign.

Like as a virgin riseth up, and goes,
And enters on the mazes of the dance,
Though gay, yet innocent of worse intent,
Than to do fitting honour to the bride;
So I beheld the new effulgence come
Unto the other two, who in a ring
WheelГўВҖВҷd, as became their rapture. In the dance
And in the song it mingled. And the dame
Held on them fixГўВҖВҷd her looks: eГўВҖВҷen as the spouse
Silent and moveless. ГўВҖВңThis is he, who lay
Upon the bosom of our pelican:
This he, into whose keeping from the cross
The mighty charge was given.ГўВҖВқ Thus she spake,
Yet therefore naught the more removГўВҖВҷd her Sight
From marking them, or ere her words began,
Or when they closГўВҖВҷd. As he, who looks intent,
And strives with searching ken, how he may see
The sun in his eclipse, and, through desire
Of seeing, loseth power of sight: so I
PeerГўВҖВҷd on that last resplendence, while I heard:
ГўВҖВңWhy dazzlest thou thine eyes in seeking that,
Which here abides not? Earth my body is,
In earth: and shall be, with the rest, so long,
As till our number equal the decree
Of the Most High. The two that have ascended,
In this our blessed cloister, shine alone
With the two garments. So report below.ГўВҖВқ

As when, for ease of labour, or to shun
Suspected peril at a whistleГўВҖВҷs breath,
The oars, erewhile dashГўВҖВҷd frequent in the wave,
All rest; the flamy circle at that voice
So rested, and the mingling sound was still,
Which from the trinal band soft-breathing rose.
I turnГўВҖВҷd, but ah! how trembled in my thought,
When, looking at my side again to see
Beatrice, I descried her not, although
Not distant, on the happy coast she stood.




CANTO XXVI


With dazzled eyes, whilst wondГўВҖВҷring I remainГўВҖВҷd,
Forth of the beamy flame which dazzled me,
Issued a breath, that in attention mute
DetainГўВҖВҷd me; and these words it spake: ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҷT were well,
That, long as till thy vision, on my form
OГўВҖВҷerspent, regain its virtue, with discourse
Thou compensate the brief delay. Say then,
Beginning, to what point thy soul aspires:ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңAnd meanwhile rest assurГўВҖВҷd, that sight in thee
Is but oГўВҖВҷerpowered a space, not wholly quenchГўВҖВҷd:
Since thy fair guide and lovely, in her look
Hath potency, the like to that which dwelt
In AnaniasГўВҖВҷ hand.ГўВҖВқ I answering thus:
ГўВҖВңBe to mine eyes the remedy or late
Or early, at her pleasure; for they were
The gates, at which she enterГўВҖВҷd, and did light
Her never dying fire. My wishes here
Are centered; in this palace is the weal,
That Alpha and Omega, is to all
The lessons love can read me.ГўВҖВқ Yet again
The voice which had dispersГўВҖВҷd my fear, when dazГўВҖВҷd
With that excess, to converse urgГўВҖВҷd, and spake:
ГўВҖВңBehooves thee sift more narrowly thy terms,
And say, who levelГўВҖВҷd at this scope thy bow.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңPhilosophy,ГўВҖВқ said I, ГўВҖВңhath arguments,
And this place hath authority enough
TГўВҖВҷ imprint in me such love: for, of constraint,
Good, inasmuch as we perceive the good,
Kindles our love, and in degree the more,
As it comprises more of goodness in ГўВҖВҷt.
The essence then, where such advantage is,
That each good, found without it, is naught else
But of his light the beam, must needs attract
The soul of each one, loving, who the truth
Discerns, on which this proof is built. Such truth
Learn I from him, who shows me the first love
Of all intelligential substances
Eternal: from his voice I learn, whose word
Is truth, that of himself to Moses saith,
ГўВҖВҳI will make all my good before thee pass.ГўВҖВҷ
Lastly from thee I learn, who chief proclaimГўВҖВҷst,
EГўВҖВҷen at the outset of thy heralding,
In mortal ears the mystery of heavГўВҖВҷn.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңThrough human wisdom, and thГўВҖВҷ authority
Therewith agreeing,ГўВҖВқ heard I answerГўВҖВҷd, ГўВҖВңkeep
The choicest of thy love for God. But say,
If thou yet other cords within thee feelГўВҖВҷst
That draw thee towards him; so that thou report
How many are the fangs, with which this love
Is grappled to thy soul.ГўВҖВқ I did not miss,
To what intent the eagle of our Lord
Had pointed his demand; yea noted well
ThГўВҖВҷ avowal, which he led to; and resumГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңAll grappling bonds, that knit the heart to God,
Confederate to make fast our clarity.
The being of the world, and mine own being,
The death which he endurГўВҖВҷd that I should live,
And that, which all the faithful hope, as I do,
To the forementionГўВҖВҷd lively knowledge joinГўВҖВҷd,
Have from the sea of ill love savГўВҖВҷd my bark,
And on the coast securГўВҖВҷd it of the right.
As for the leaves, that in the garden bloom,
My love for them is great, as is the good
Dealt by thГўВҖВҷ eternal hand, that tends them all.ГўВҖВқ

I ended, and therewith a song most sweet
Rang through the spheres; and ГўВҖВңHoly, holy, holy,ГўВҖВқ
Accordant with the rest my lady sang.
And as a sleep is broken and dispersГўВҖВҷd
Through sharp encounter of the nimble light,
With the eyeГўВҖВҷs spirit running forth to meet
The ray, from membrane on to the membrane urgГўВҖВҷd;
And the upstartled wight loathes that he sees;
So, at his sudden waking, he misdeems
Of all around him, till assurance waits
On better judgment: thus the saintly came
Drove from before mine eyes the motes away,
With the resplendence of her own, that cast
Their brightness downward, thousand miles below.
Whence I my vision, clearer shall before,
RecoverГўВҖВҷd; and, well nigh astounded, askГўВҖВҷd
Of a fourth light, that now with us I saw.

And Beatrice: ГўВҖВңThe first diving soul,
That ever the first virtue framГўВҖВҷd, admires
Within these rays his Maker.ГўВҖВқ Like the leaf,
That bows its lithe top till the blast is blown;
By its own virtue rearГўВҖВҷd then stands aloof;
So I, the whilst she said, awe-stricken bowГўВҖВҷd.
Then eagerness to speak emboldenГўВҖВҷd me;
And I began: ГўВҖВңO fruit! that wast alone
Mature, when first engenderГўВҖВҷd! Ancient father!
That doubly seest in every wedded bride
Thy daughter by affinity and blood!
Devoutly as I may, I pray thee hold
Converse with me: my will thou seest; and I,
More speedily to hear thee, tell it not.ГўВҖВқ

It chanceth oft some animal bewrays,
Through the sleek covГўВҖВҷring of his furry coat.
The fondness, that stirs in him and conforms
His outside seeming to the cheer within:
And in like guise was AdamГўВҖВҷs spirit movГўВҖВҷd
To joyous mood, that through the covering shone,
Transparent, when to pleasure me it spake:
ГўВҖВңNo need thy will be told, which I untold
Better discern, than thou whatever thing
Thou holdst most certain: for that will I see
In Him, who is truthГўВҖВҷs mirror, and Himself
Parhelion unto all things, and naught else
To him. This wouldst thou hear; how long since God
PlacГўВҖВҷd me high garden, from whose hounds
She led me up in this ladder, steep and long;
What space endurГўВҖВҷd my season of delight;
Whence truly sprang the wrath that banishГўВҖВҷd me;
And what the language, which I spake and framГўВҖВҷd
Not that I tasted of the tree, my son,
Was in itself the cause of that exile,
But only my transgressing of the mark
AssignГўВҖВҷd me. There, whence at thy ladyГўВҖВҷs hest
The Mantuan movГўВҖВҷd him, still was I debarrГўВҖВҷd
This council, till the sun had made complete,
Four thousand and three hundred rounds and twice,
His annual journey; and, through every light
In his broad pathway, saw I him return,
Thousand save sevГўВҖВҷnty times, the whilst I dwelt
Upon the earth. The language I did use
Was worn away, or ever NimrodГўВҖВҷs race
Their unaccomplishable work began.
For naught, that man inclines to, ere was lasting,
Left by his reason free, and variable,
As is the sky that sways him. That he speaks,
Is natureГўВҖВҷs prompting: whether thus or thus,
She leaves to you, as ye do most affect it.
Ere I descended into hellГўВҖВҷs abyss,
El was the name on earth of the Chief Good,
Whose joy enfolds me: Eli then ГўВҖВҷt was callГўВҖВҷd
And so beseemeth: for, in mortals, use
Is as the leaf upon the bough; that goes,
And other comes instead. Upon the mount
Most high above the waters, all my life,
Both innocent and guilty, did but reach
From the first hour, to that which cometh next
(As the sun changes quarter), to the sixth.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXVII


Then ГўВҖВңGlory to the Father, to the Son,
And to the Holy Spirit,ГўВҖВқ rang aloud
Throughout all Paradise, that with the song
My spirit reelГўВҖВҷd, so passing sweet the strain:
And what I saw was equal ecstasy;
One universal smile it seemГўВҖВҷd of all things,
Joy past compare, gladness unutterable,
Imperishable life of peace and love,
Exhaustless riches and unmeasurГўВҖВҷd bliss.

Before mine eyes stood the four torches lit;
And that, which first had come, began to wax
In brightness, and in semblance such became,
As Jove might be, if he and Mars were birds,
And interchangГўВҖВҷd their plumes. Silence ensued,
Through the blest quire, by Him, who here appoints
Vicissitude of ministry, enjoinГўВҖВҷd;
When thus I heard: ГўВҖВңWonder not, if my hue
Be changГўВҖВҷd; for, while I speak, these shalt thou see
All in like manner change with me. My place
He who usurps on earth (my place, ay, mine,
Which in the presence of the Son of God
Is void), the same hath made my cemetery
A common sewer of puddle and of blood:
The more below his triumph, who from hence
Malignant fell.ГўВҖВқ Such colour, as the sun,
At eve or morning, paints an adverse cloud,
Then saw I sprinkled over all the sky.
And as thГўВҖВҷ unblemishГўВҖВҷd dame, who in herself
Secure of censure, yet at bare report
Of otherГўВҖВҷs failing, shrinks with maiden fear;
So Beatrice in her semblance changГўВҖВҷd:
And such eclipse in heavГўВҖВҷn methinks was seen,
When the Most Holy sufferГўВҖВҷd. Then the words
Proceeded, with voice, alterГўВҖВҷd from itself
So clean, the semblance did not alter more.
ГўВҖВңNot to this end was ChristГўВҖВҷs spouse with my blood,
With that of Linus, and of Cletus fed:
That she might serve for purchase of base gold:
But for the purchase of this happy life
Did Sextus, Pius, and Callixtus bleed,
And Urban, they, whose doom was not without
Much weeping sealГўВҖВҷd. No purpose was of our
That on the right hand of our successors
Part of the Christian people should be set,
And part upon their left; nor that the keys,
Which were vouchsafГўВҖВҷd me, should for ensign serve
Unto the banners, that do levy war
On the baptizГўВҖВҷd: nor I, for sigil-mark
Set upon sold and lying privileges;
Which makes me oft to bicker and turn red.
In shepherdГўВҖВҷs clothing greedy wolves below
Range wide oГўВҖВҷer all the pastures. Arm of God!
Why longer sleepst thou? Caorsines and Gascona
Prepare to quaff our blood. O good beginning
To what a vile conclusion must thou stoop!
But the high providence, which did defend
Through Scipio the worldГўВҖВҷs glory unto Rome,
Will not delay its succour: and thou, son,
Who through thy mortal weight shall yet again
Return below, open thy lips, nor hide
What is by me not hidden.ГўВҖВқ As a Hood
Of frozen vapours streams adown the air,
What time the she-goat with her skiey horn
Touches the sun; so saw I there stream wide
The vapours, who with us had lingerГўВҖВҷd late
And with glad triumph deck thГўВҖВҷ ethereal cope.
Onward my sight their semblances pursued;
So far pursued, as till the space between
From its reach severГўВҖВҷd them: whereat the guide
Celestial, marking me no more intent
On upward gazing, said, ГўВҖВңLook down and see
What circuit thou hast compassГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ From the hour
When I before had cast my view beneath,
All the first region overpast I saw,
Which from the midmost to the boundГўВҖВҷry winds;
That onward thence from Gades I beheld
The unwise passage of LaertesГўВҖВҷ son,
And hitherward the shore, where thou, Europa!
MadГўВҖВҷst thee a joyful burden: and yet more
Of this dim spot had seen, but that the sun,
A constellation off and more, had taГўВҖВҷen
His progress in the zodiac underneath.

Then by the spirit, that doth never leave
Its amorous dalliance with my ladyГўВҖВҷs looks,
Back with redoubled ardour were mine eyes
Led unto her: and from her radiant smiles,
Whenas I turnГўВҖВҷd me, pleasure so divine
Did lighten on me, that whatever bait
Or art or nature in the human flesh,
Or in its limnГўВҖВҷd resemblance, can combine
Through greedy eyes to take the soul withal,
Were to her beauty nothing. Its boon influence
From the fair nest of Leda rapt me forth,
And wafted on into the swiftest heavГўВҖВҷn.

What place for entrance Beatrice chose,
I may not say, so uniform was all,
Liveliest and loftiest. She my secret wish
DivinГўВҖВҷd; and with such gladness, that GodГўВҖВҷs love
SeemГўВҖВҷd from her visage shining, thus began:
ГўВҖВңHere is the goal, whence motion on his race
Starts; motionless the centre, and the rest
All movГўВҖВҷd around. Except the soul divine,
Place in this heavГўВҖВҷn is none, the soul divine,
Wherein the love, which ruleth oГўВҖВҷer its orb,
Is kindled, and the virtue that it sheds;
One circle, light and love, enclasping it,
As this doth clasp the others; and to Him,
Who draws the bound, its limit only known.
MeasurГўВҖВҷd itself by none, it doth divide
Motion to all, counted unto them forth,
As by the fifth or half ye count forth ten.
The vase, wherein timeГўВҖВҷs roots are plungГўВҖВҷd, thou seest,
Look elsewhere for the leaves. O mortal lust!
That canst not lift thy head above the waves
Which whelm and sink thee down! The will in man
Bears goodly blossoms; but its ruddy promise
Is, by the dripping of perpetual rain,
Made mere abortion: faith and innocence
Are met with but in babes, each taking leave
Ere cheeks with down are sprinkled; he, that fasts,
While yet a stammerer, with his tongue let loose
Gluts every food alike in every moon.
One yet a babbler, loves and listens to
His mother; but no sooner hath free use
Of speech, than he doth wish her in her grave.
So suddenly doth the fair child of him,
Whose welcome is the morn and eve his parting,
To negro blackness change her virgin white.

ГўВҖВңThou, to abate thy wonder, note that none
Bears rule in earth, and its frail family
Are therefore wandГўВҖВҷrers. Yet before the date,
When through the hundredth in his reckГўВҖВҷning drops
Pale January must be shorГўВҖВҷd aside
From winterГўВҖВҷs calendar, these heavГўВҖВҷnly spheres
Shall roar so loud, that fortune shall be fain
To turn the poop, where she hath now the prow;
So that the fleet run onward; and true fruit,
Expected long, shall crown at last the bloom!ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXVIII


So she who doth imparadise my soul,
Had drawn the veil from off our pleasant life,
And barГўВҖВҷd the truth of poor mortality;
When lo! as one who, in a mirror, spies
The shining of a flambeau at his back,
Lit sudden ore he deem of its approach,
And turneth to resolve him, if the glass
Have told him true, and sees the record faithful
As note is to its metre; even thus,
I well remember, did befall to me,
Looking upon the beauteous eyes, whence love
Had made the leash to take me. As I turnГўВҖВҷd;
And that, which, in their circles, none who spies,
Can miss of, in itself apparent, struck
On mine; a point I saw, that darted light
So sharp, no lid, unclosing, may bear up
Against its keenness. The least star we view
From hence, had seemГўВҖВҷd a moon, set by its side,
As star by side of star. And so far off,
Perchance, as is the halo from the light
Which paints it, when most dense the vapour spreads,
There wheelГўВҖВҷd about the point a circle of fire,
More rapid than the motion, which first girds
The world. Then, circle after circle, round
EnringГўВҖВҷd each other; till the seventh reachГўВҖВҷd
Circumference so ample, that its bow,
Within the span of JunoГўВҖВҷs messenger,
lied scarce been held entire. Beyond the sevГўВҖВҷnth,
FollowГўВҖВҷd yet other two. And every one,
As more in number distant from the first,
Was tardier in motion; and that glowГўВҖВҷd
With flame most pure, that to the sparkleГўВҖВҷ of truth
Was nearest, as partaking most, methinks,
Of its reality. The guide belovГўВҖВҷd
Saw me in anxious thought suspense, and spake:
ГўВҖВңHeavГўВҖВҷn, and all nature, hangs upon that point.
The circle thereto most conjoinГўВҖВҷd observe;
And know, that by intenser love its course
Is to this swiftness wingГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ To whom I thus:
ГўВҖВңIt were enough; nor should I further seek,
Had I but witnessГўВҖВҷd order, in the world
Appointed, such as in these wheels is seen.
But in the sensible world such diffГўВҖВҷrence is,
That is each round shows more divinity,
As each is wider from the centre. Hence,
If in this wondrous and angelic temple,
That hath for confine only light and love,
My wish may have completion I must know,
Wherefore such disagreement is between
ThГўВҖВҷ exemplar and its copy: for myself,
Contemplating, I fail to pierce the cause.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңIt is no marvel, if thy fingers foilГўВҖВҷd
Do leave the knot untied: so hard ГўВҖВҷt is grown
For want of tenting.ГўВҖВқ Thus she said: ГўВҖВңBut take,ГўВҖВқ
She added, ГўВҖВңif thou wish thy cure, my words,
And entertain them subtly. Every orb
Corporeal, doth proportion its extent
Unto the virtue through its parts diffusГўВҖВҷd.
The greater blessedness preserves the more.
The greater is the body (if all parts
Share equally) the more is to preserve.
Therefore the circle, whose swift course enwheels
The universal frame answers to that,
Which is supreme in knowledge and in love
Thus by the virtue, not the seeming, breadth
Of substance, measure, thou shalt see the heavГўВҖВҷns,
Each to theГўВҖВҷ intelligence that ruleth it,
Greater to more, and smaller unto less,
Suited in strict and wondrous harmony.ГўВҖВқ

As when the sturdy north blows from his cheek
A blast, that scours the sky, forthwith our air,
ClearГўВҖВҷd of the rack, that hung on it before,
Glitters; and, With his beauties all unveilГўВҖВҷd,
The firmament looks forth serene, and smiles;
Such was my cheer, when Beatrice drove
With clear reply the shadows back, and truth
Was manifested, as a star in heaven.
And when the words were ended, not unlike
To iron in the furnace, every cirque
Ebullient shot forth scintillating fires:
And every sparkle shivering to new blaze,
In number did outmillion the account
Reduplicate upon the chequerГўВҖВҷd board.
Then heard I echoing on from choir to choir,
ГўВҖВңHosanna,ГўВҖВқ to the fixed point, that holds,
And shall for ever hold them to their place,
From everlasting, irremovable.

Musing awhile I stood: and she, who saw
by inward meditations, thus began:
ГўВҖВңIn the first circles, they, whom thou beheldst,
Are seraphim and cherubim. Thus swift
Follow their hoops, in likeness to the point,
Near as they can, approaching; and they can
The more, the loftier their vision. Those,
That round them fleet, gazing the Godhead next,
Are thrones; in whom the first trine ends. And all
Are blessed, even as their sight descends
Deeper into the truth, wherein rest is
For every mind. Thus happiness hath root
In seeing, not in loving, which of sight
Is aftergrowth. And of the seeing such
The meed, as unto each in due degree
Grace and good-will their measure have assignГўВҖВҷd.
The other trine, that with still opening buds
In this eternal springtide blossom fair,
Fearless of bruising from the nightly ram,
Breathe up in warbled melodies threefold
Hosannas blending ever, from the three
Transmitted. hierarchy of gods, for aye
Rejoicing, dominations first, next then
Virtues, and powers the third. The next to whom
Are princedoms and archangels, with glad round
To tread their festal ring; and last the band
Angelical, disporting in their sphere.
All, as they circle in their orders, look
Aloft, and downward with such sway prevail,
That all with mutual impulse tend to God.
These once a mortal view beheld. Desire
In Dionysius so intently wrought,
That he, as I have done rangГўВҖВҷd them; and namГўВҖВҷd
Their orders, marshalГўВҖВҷd in his thought. From him
Dissentient, one refusГўВҖВҷd his sacred read.
But soon as in this heavГўВҖВҷn his doubting eyes
Were openГўВҖВҷd, Gregory at his error smilГўВҖВҷd
Nor marvel, that a denizen of earth
Should scan such secret truth; for he had learnt
Both this and much beside of these our orbs,
From an eye-witness to heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs mysteries.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXIX


No longer than what time LatonaГўВҖВҷs twins
CoverГўВҖВҷd of Libra and the fleecy star,
Together both, girding theГўВҖВҷ horizon hang,
In even balance from the zenith poisГўВҖВҷd,
Till from that verge, each, changing hemisphere,
Part the nice level; eГўВҖВҷen so brief a space
Did BeatriceГўВҖВҷs silence hold. A smile
Bat painted on her cheek; and her fixГўВҖВҷd gaze
Bent on the point, at which my vision failГўВҖВҷd:
When thus her words resuming she began:
ГўВҖВңI speak, nor what thou wouldst inquire demand;
For I have markГўВҖВҷd it, where all time and place
Are present. Not for increase to himself
Of good, which may not be increasГўВҖВҷd, but forth
To manifest his glory by its beams,
Inhabiting his own eternity,
Beyond timeГўВҖВҷs limit or what bound soeГўВҖВҷer
To circumscribe his being, as he willГўВҖВҷd,
Into new natures, like unto himself,
Eternal Love unfolded. Nor before,
As if in dull inaction torpid lay.
For not in process of before or aft
Upon these waters movГўВҖВҷd the Spirit of God.
Simple and mixГўВҖВҷd, both form and substance, forth
To perfect being started, like three darts
Shot from a bow three-corded. And as ray
In crystal, glass, and amber, shines entire,
EГўВҖВҷen at the moment of its issuing; thus
Did, from thГўВҖВҷ eternal Sovran, beam entire
His threefold operation, at one act
ProducГўВҖВҷd coeval. Yet in order each
Created his due station knew: those highest,
Who pure intelligence were made: mere power
The lowest: in the midst, bound with strict league,
Intelligence and power, unseverГўВҖВҷd bond.
Long tract of ages by the angels past,
Ere the creating of another world,
DescribГўВҖВҷd on JeromeГўВҖВҷs pages thou hast seen.
But that what I disclose to thee is true,
Those penmen, whom the Holy Spirit movГўВҖВҷd
In many a passage of their sacred book
Attest; as thou by diligent search shalt find
And reason in some sort discerns the same,
Who scarce would grant the heavГўВҖВҷnly ministers
Of their perfection void, so long a space.
Thus when and where these spirits of love were made,
Thou knowГўВҖВҷst, and how: and knowing hast allayГўВҖВҷd
Thy thirst, which from the triple question rose.
Ere one had reckonГўВҖВҷd twenty, eГўВҖВҷen so soon
Part of the angels fell: and in their fall
Confusion to your elements ensued.
The others kept their station: and this task,
Whereon thou lookst, began with such delight,
That they surcease not ever, day nor night,
Their circling. Of that fatal lapse the cause
Was the curst pride of him, whom thou hast seen
Pent with the worldГўВҖВҷs incumbrance. Those, whom here
Thou seest, were lowly to confess themselves
Of his free bounty, who had made them apt
For ministries so high: therefore their views
Were by enlightГўВҖВҷning grace and their own merit
Exalted; so that in their will confirmГўВҖВҷd
They stand, nor feel to fall. For do not doubt,
But to receive the grace, which heavГўВҖВҷn vouchsafes,
Is meritorious, even as the soul
With prompt affection welcometh the guest.
Now, without further help, if with good heed
My words thy mind have treasurГўВҖВҷd, thou henceforth
This consistory round about mayst scan,
And gaze thy fill. But since thou hast on earth
Heard vain disputers, reasoners in the schools,
Canvas theГўВҖВҷ angelic nature, and dispute
Its powers of apprehension, memory, choice;
Therefore, ГўВҖВҷt is well thou take from me the truth,
Pure and without disguise, which they below,
Equivocating, darken and perplex.

ГўВҖВңKnow thou, that, from the first, these substances,
Rejoicing in the countenance of God,
Have held unceasingly their view, intent
Upon the glorious vision, from the which
Naught absent is nor hid: where then no change
Of newness with succession interrupts,
Remembrance there needs none to gather up
Divided thought and images remote

ГўВҖВңSo that men, thus at variance with the truth
Dream, though their eyes be open; reckless some
Of error; others well aware they err,
To whom more guilt and shame are justly due.
Each the known track of sage philosophy
Deserts, and has a byway of his own:
So much the restless eagerness to shine
And love of singularity prevail.
Yet this, offensive as it is, provokes
HeavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs anger less, than when the book of God
Is forcГўВҖВҷd to yield to manГўВҖВҷs authority,
Or from its straightness warpГўВҖВҷd: no reckГўВҖВҷning made
What blood the sowing of it in the world
Has cost; what favour for himself he wins,
Who meekly clings to it. The aim of all
Is how to shine: eГўВҖВҷen they, whose office is
To preach the Gospel, let the gospel sleep,
And pass their own inventions off instead.
One tells, how at ChristГўВҖВҷs suffering the wan moon
Bent back her steps, and shadowГўВҖВҷd oГўВҖВҷer the sun
With intervenient disk, as she withdrew:
Another, how the light shrouded itself
Within its tabernacle, and left dark
The Spaniard and the Indian, with the Jew.
Such fables Florence in her pulpit hears,
Bandied about more frequent, than the names
Of Bindi and of Lapi in her streets.
The sheep, meanwhile, poor witless ones, return
From pasture, fed with wind: and what avails
For their excuse, they do not see their harm?
Christ said not to his first conventicle,
ГўВҖВҳGo forth and preach impostures to the world,ГўВҖВҷ
But gave them truth to build on; and the sound
Was mighty on their lips; nor needed they,
Beside the gospel, other spear or shield,
To aid them in their warfare for the faith.
The preacher now provides himself with store
Of jests and gibes; and, so there be no lack
Of laughter, while he vents them, his big cowl
Distends, and he has won the meed he sought:
Could but the vulgar catch a glimpse the while
Of that dark bird which nestles in his hood,
They scarce would wait to hear the blessing said.
Which now the dotards hold in such esteem,
That every counterfeit, who spreads abroad
The hands of holy promise, finds a throng
Of credulous fools beneath. Saint Anthony
Fattens with this his swine, and others worse
Than swine, who diet at his lazy board,
Paying with unstampГўВҖВҷd metal for their fare.

ГўВҖВңBut (for we far have wanderГўВҖВҷd) let us seek
The forward path again; so as the way
Be shortenГўВҖВҷd with the time. No mortal tongue
Nor thought of man hath ever reachГўВҖВҷd so far,
That of these natures he might count the tribes.
What Daniel of their thousands hath revealГўВҖВҷd
With finite number infinite conceals.
The fountain at whose source these drink their beams,
With light supplies them in as many modes,
As there are splendours, that it shines on: each
According to the virtue it conceives,
Differing in love and sweet affection.
Look then how lofty and how huge in breadth
TheГўВҖВҷ eternal might, which, broken and dispersГўВҖВҷd
Over such countless mirrors, yet remains
Whole in itself and one, as at the first.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXX


NoonГўВҖВҷs fervid hour perchance six thousand miles
From hence is distant; and the shadowy cone
Almost to level on our earth declines;
When from the midmost of this blue abyss
By turns some star is to our vision lost.
And straightway as the handmaid of the sun
Puts forth her radiant brow, all, light by light,
Fade, and the spangled firmament shuts in,
EГўВҖВҷen to the loveliest of the glittering throng.
Thus vanishГўВҖВҷd gradually from my sight
The triumph, which plays ever round the point,
That overcame me, seeming (for it did)
Engirt by that it girdeth. Wherefore love,
With loss of other object, forcГўВҖВҷd me bend
Mine eyes on Beatrice once again.

If all, that hitherto is told of her,
Were in one praise concluded, ГўВҖВҷt were too weak
To furnish out this turn. Mine eyes did look
On beauty, such, as I believe in sooth,
Not merely to exceed our human, but,
That save its Maker, none can to the full
Enjoy it. At this point oГўВҖВҷerpowerГўВҖВҷd I fail,
Unequal to my theme, as never bard
Of buskin or of sock hath failГўВҖВҷd before.
For, as the sun doth to the feeblest sight,
EГўВҖВҷen so remembrance of that witching smile
Hath dispossess my spirit of itself.
Not from that day, when on this earth I first
Beheld her charms, up to that view of them,
Have I with song applausive ever ceasГўВҖВҷd
To follow, but not follow them no more;
My course here bounded, as each artistГўВҖВҷs is,
When it doth touch the limit of his skill.

She (such as I bequeath her to the bruit
Of louder trump than mine, which hasteneth on,
Urging its arduous matter to the close),
Her words resumГўВҖВҷd, in gesture and in voice
Resembling one accustomГўВҖВҷd to command:
ГўВҖВңForth from the last corporeal are we come
Into the heavГўВҖВҷn, that is unbodied light,
Light intellectual replete with love,
Love of true happiness replete with joy,
Joy, that transcends all sweetness of delight.
Here shalt thou look on either mighty host
Of Paradise; and one in that array,
Which in the final judgment thou shalt see.ГўВҖВқ

As when the lightning, in a sudden spleen
Unfolded, dashes from the blinding eyes
The visive spirits dazzled and bedimmГўВҖВҷd;
So, round about me, fulminating streams
Of living radiance playГўВҖВҷd, and left me swathГўВҖВҷd
And veilГўВҖВҷd in dense impenetrable blaze.
Such weal is in the love, that stills this heavГўВҖВҷn;
For its own flame the torch this fitting ever!

No sooner to my listГўВҖВҷning ear had come
The brief assurance, than I understood
New virtue into me infusГўВҖВҷd, and sight
Kindled afresh, with vigour to sustain
Excess of light, however pure. I lookГўВҖВҷd;
And in the likeness of a river saw
Light flowing, from whose amber-seeming waves
FlashГўВҖВҷd up effulgence, as they glided on
ГўВҖВҷTwixt banks, on either side, painted with spring,
Incredible how fair; and, from the tide,
There ever and anon, outstarting, flew
Sparkles instinct with life; and in the flowГўВҖВҷrs
Did set them, like to rubies chasГўВҖВҷd in gold;
Then, as if drunk with odors, plungГўВҖВҷd again
Into the wondrous flood; from which, as one
ReГўВҖВҷenterГўВҖВҷd, still another rose. ГўВҖВңThe thirst
Of knowledge high, whereby thou art inflamГўВҖВҷd,
To search the meaning of what here thou seest,
The more it warms thee, pleases me the more.
But first behooves thee of this water drink,
Or ere that longing be allayГўВҖВҷd.ГўВҖВқ So spake
The day-star of mine eyes; then thus subjoinГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңThis stream, and these, forth issuing from its gulf,
And diving back, a living topaz each,
With all this laughter on its bloomy shores,
Are but a preface, shadowy of the truth
They emblem: not that, in themselves, the things
Are crude; but on thy part is the defect,
For that thy views not yet aspire so high.ГўВҖВқ
Never did babe, that had outslept his wont,
Rush, with such eager straining, to the milk,
As I toward the water, bending me,
To make the better mirrors of mine eyes
In the refining wave; and, as the eaves
Of mine eyelids did drink of it, forthwith
SeemГўВҖВҷd it unto me turnГўВҖВҷd from length to round,
Then as a troop of maskers, when they put
Their vizors off, look other than before,
The counterfeited semblance thrown aside;
So into greater jubilee were changГўВҖВҷd
Those flowers and sparkles, and distinct I saw
Before me either court of heavГўВҖВҷn displacГўВҖВҷd.

O prime enlightener! thou who cravГўВҖВҷst me strength
On the high triumph of thy realm to gaze!
Grant virtue now to utter what I kennГўВҖВҷd,
There is in heavГўВҖВҷn a light, whose goodly shine
Makes the Creator visible to all
Created, that in seeing him alone
Have peace; and in a circle spreads so far,
That the circumference were too loose a zone
To girdle in the sun. All is one beam,
Reflected from the summit of the first,
That moves, which being hence and vigour takes,
And as some cliff, that from the bottom eyes
Its image mirrorГўВҖВҷd in the crystal flood,
As if tГўВҖВҷ admire its brave appareling
Of verdure and of flowers: so, round about,
Eyeing the light, on more than million thrones,
Stood, eminent, whatever from our earth
Has to the skies returnГўВҖВҷd. How wide the leaves
Extended to their utmost of this rose,
Whose lowest step embosoms such a space
Of ample radiance! Yet, nor amplitude
Nor height impeded, but my view with ease
Took in the full dimensions of that joy.
Near or remote, what there avails, where God
Immediate rules, and Nature, awed, suspends
Her sway? Into the yellow of the rose
Perennial, which in bright expansiveness,
Lays forth its gradual blooming, redolent
Of praises to the never-wintГўВҖВҷring sun,
As one, who fain would speak yet holds his peace,
Beatrice led me; and, ГўВҖВңBehold,ГўВҖВқ she said,
ГўВҖВңThis fair assemblage! stoles of snowy white
How numberless! The city, where we dwell,
Behold how vast! and these our seats so throngГўВҖВҷd
Few now are wanting here! In that proud stall,
On which, the crown, already oГўВҖВҷer its state
Suspended, holds thine eyesГўВҖВ”or ere thyself
Mayst at the wedding sup,ГўВҖВ”shall rest the soul
Of the great Harry, he who, by the world
Augustas hailГўВҖВҷd, to Italy must come,
Before her day be ripe. But ye are sick,
And in your tetchy wantonness as blind,
As is the bantling, that of hunger dies,
And drives away the nurse. Nor may it be,
That he, who in the sacred forum sways,
Openly or in secret, shall with him
Accordant walk: Whom God will not endure
IГўВҖВҷ thГўВҖВҷ holy office long; but thrust him down
To Simon Magus, where MagnaГўВҖВҷs priest
Will sink beneath him: such will be his meed.ГўВҖВқ




CANTO XXXI


In fashion, as a snow-white rose, lay then
Before my view the saintly multitude,
Which in his own blood Christ espousГўВҖВҷd. Meanwhile
That other host, that soar aloft to gaze
And celebrate his glory, whom they love,
HoverГўВҖВҷd around; and, like a troop of bees,
Amid the vernal sweets alighting now,
Now, clustering, where their fragrant labour glows,
Flew downward to the mighty flowГўВҖВҷr, or rose
From the redundant petals, streaming back
Unto the steadfast dwelling of their joy.
Faces had they of flame, and wings of gold;
The rest was whiter than the driven snow.
And as they flitted down into the flower,
From range to range, fanning their plumy loins,
WhisperГўВҖВҷd the peace and ardour, which they won
From that soft winnowing. Shadow none, the vast
Interposition of such numerous flight
Cast, from above, upon the flower, or view
Obstructed aught. For, through the universe,
Wherever merited, celestial light
Glides freely, and no obstacle prevents.

All there, who reign in safety and in bliss,
Ages long past or new, on one sole mark
Their love and vision fixГўВҖВҷd. O trinal beam
Of individual star, that charmst them thus,
Vouchsafe one glance to gild our storm below!

If the grim brood, from Arctic shores that roamГўВҖВҷd,
(Where helice, forever, as she wheels,
Sparkles a motherГўВҖВҷs fondness on her son)
Stood in mute wonder ГўВҖВҷmid the works of Rome,
When to their view the Lateran arose
In greatness more than earthly; I, who then
From human to divine had past, from time
Unto eternity, and out of Florence
To justice and to truth, how might I choose
But marvel too? ГўВҖВҷTwixt gladness and amaze,
In sooth no will had I to utter aught,
Or hear. And, as a pilgrim, when he rests
Within the temple of his vow, looks round
In breathless awe, and hopes some time to tell
Of all its goodly state: eГўВҖВҷen so mine eyes
CoursГўВҖВҷd up and down along the living light,
Now low, and now aloft, and now around,
Visiting every step. Looks I beheld,
Where charity in soft persuasion sat,
Smiles from within and radiance from above,
And in each gesture grace and honour high.

So rovГўВҖВҷd my ken, and its general form
All Paradise surveyГўВҖВҷd: when round I turnГўВҖВҷd
With purpose of my lady to inquire
Once more of things, that held my thought suspense,
But answer found from other than I weenГўВҖВҷd;
For, Beatrice, when I thought to see,
I saw instead a senior, at my side,
RobГўВҖВҷd, as the rest, in glory. Joy benign
GlowГўВҖВҷd in his eye, and oГўВҖВҷer his cheek diffusГўВҖВҷd,
With gestures such as spake a fatherГўВҖВҷs love.
And, ГўВҖВңWhither is she vanishГўВҖВҷd?ГўВҖВқ straight I askГўВҖВҷd.

ГўВҖВңBy Beatrice summonГўВҖВҷd,ГўВҖВқ he replied,
ГўВҖВңI come to aid thy wish. Looking aloft
To the third circle from the highest, there
Behold her on the throne, wherein her merit
Hath placГўВҖВҷd her.ГўВҖВқ Answering not, mine eyes I raisГўВҖВҷd,
And saw her, where aloof she sat, her brow
A wreath reflecting of eternal beams.
Not from the centre of the sea so far
Unto the region of the highest thunder,
As was my ken from hers; and yet the form
Came through that medium down, unmixГўВҖВҷd and pure,

ГўВҖВңO Lady! thou in whom my hopes have rest!
Who, for my safety, hast not scornГўВҖВҷd, in hell
To leave the traces of thy footsteps markГўВҖВҷd!
For all mine eyes have seen, I, to thy power
And goodness, virtue owe and grace. Of slave,
Thou hast to freedom brought me; and no means,
For my deliverance apt, hast left untried.
Thy liberal bounty still toward me keep.
That, when my spirit, which thou madest whole,
Is loosenГўВҖВҷd from this body, it may find
Favour with thee.ГўВҖВқ So I my suit preferrГўВҖВҷd:
And she, so distant, as appearГўВҖВҷd, lookГўВҖВҷd down,
And smilГўВҖВҷd; then towГўВҖВҷrds thГўВҖВҷ eternal fountain turnГўВҖВҷd.

And thus the senior, holy and reverГўВҖВҷd:
ГўВҖВңThat thou at length mayst happily conclude
Thy voyage (to which end I was dispatchГўВҖВҷd,
By supplication movГўВҖВҷd and holy love)
Let thy upsoaring vision range, at large,
This garden through: for so, by ray divine
Kindled, thy ken a higher flight shall mount;
And from heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs queen, whom fervent I adore,
All gracious aid befriend us; for that I
Am her own faithful Bernard.ГўВҖВқ Like a wight,
Who haply from Croatia wends to see
Our Veronica, and the while ГўВҖВҷt is shown,
Hangs over it with never-sated gaze,
And, all that he hath heard revolving, saith
Unto himself in thought: ГўВҖВңAnd didst thou look
EГўВҖВҷen thus, O Jesus, my true Lord and God?
And was this semblance thine?ГўВҖВқ So gazГўВҖВҷd I then
Adoring; for the charity of him,
Who musing, in the world that peace enjoyГўВҖВҷd,
Stood lively before me. ГўВҖВңChild of grace!ГўВҖВқ
Thus he began: ГўВҖВңthou shalt not knowledge gain
Of this glad being, if thine eyes are held
Still in this depth below. But search around
The circles, to the furthest, till thou spy
Seated in state, the queen, that of this realm
Is sovran.ГўВҖВқ Straight mine eyes I raisГўВҖВҷd; and bright,
As, at the birth of morn, the eastern clime
Above thГўВҖВҷ horizon, where the sun declines;
To mine eyes, that upward, as from vale
To mountain sped, at thГўВҖВҷ extreme bound, a part
ExcellГўВҖВҷd in lustre all the front opposГўВҖВҷd.
And as the glow burns ruddiest oГўВҖВҷer the wave,
That waits the sloping beam, which Phaeton
Ill knew to guide, and on each part the light
DiminishГўВҖВҷd fades, intensest in the midst;
So burnГўВҖВҷd the peaceful oriflame, and slackГўВҖВҷd
On every side the living flame decayГўВҖВҷd.
And in that midst their sportive pennons wavГўВҖВҷd
Thousands of angels; in resplendence each
Distinct, and quaint adornment. At their glee
And carol, smilГўВҖВҷd the Lovely One of heavГўВҖВҷn,
That joy was in the eyes of all the blest.

Had I a tongue in eloquence as rich,
As is the colouring in fancyГўВҖВҷs loom,
ГўВҖВҷT were all too poor to utter the least part
Of that enchantment. When he saw mine eyes
Intent on her, that charmГўВҖВҷd him, Bernard gazГўВҖВҷd
With so exceeding fondness, as infusГўВҖВҷd
Ardour into my breast, unfelt before.




CANTO XXXII


Freely the sage, though wrapt in musings high,
AssumГўВҖВҷd the teacherГўВҖВҷs part, and mild began:
ГўВҖВңThe wound, that Mary closГўВҖВҷd, she openГўВҖВҷd first,
Who sits so beautiful at MaryГўВҖВҷs feet.
The third in order, underneath her, lo!
Rachel with Beatrice. Sarah next,
Judith, Rebecca, and the gleaner maid,
Meek ancestress of him, who sang the songs
Of sore repentance in his sorrowful mood.
All, as I name them, down from deaf to leaf,
Are in gradation throned on the rose.
And from the seventh step, successively,
Adown the breathing tresses of the flowГўВҖВҷr
Still doth the file of Hebrew dames proceed.
For these are a partition wall, whereby
The sacred stairs are severГўВҖВҷd, as the faith
In Christ divides them. On this part, where blooms
Each leaf in full maturity, are set
Such as in Christ, or ere he came, believГўВҖВҷd.
On thГўВҖВҷ other, where an intersected space
Yet shows the semicircle void, abide
All they, who lookГўВҖВҷd to Christ already come.
And as our Lady on her glorious stool,
And they who on their stools beneath her sit,
This way distinction make: eГўВҖВҷen so on his,
The mighty Baptist that way marks the line
(He who endurГўВҖВҷd the desert and the pains
Of martyrdom, and for two years of hell,
Yet still continued holy), and beneath,
Augustin, Francis, Benedict, and the rest,
Thus far from round to round. So heavГўВҖВҷnГўВҖВҷs decree
Forecasts, this garden equally to fill.
With faith in either view, past or to come,
Learn too, that downward from the step, which cleaves
Midway the twain compartments, none there are
Who place obtain for merit of their own,
But have through othersГўВҖВҷ merit been advancГўВҖВҷd,
On set conditions: spirits all releasГўВҖВҷd,
Ere for themselves they had the power to choose.
And, if thou mark and listen to them well,
Their childish looks and voice declare as much.

ГўВҖВңHere, silent as thou art, I know thy doubt;
And gladly will I loose the knot, wherein
Thy subtle thoughts have bound thee. From this realm
Excluded, chalice no entrance here may find,
No more shall hunger, thirst, or sorrow can.
A law immutable hath establishГўВҖВҷd all;
Nor is there aught thou seest, that doth not fit,
Exactly, as the finger to the ring.
It is not therefore without cause, that these,
OГўВҖВҷerspeedy comers to immortal life,
Are different in their shares of excellence.
Our Sovran LordГўВҖВ”that settleth this estate
In love and in delight so absolute,
That wish can dare no furtherГўВҖВ”every soul,
Created in his joyous sight to dwell,
With grace at pleasure variously endows.
And for a proof thГўВҖВҷ effect may well suffice.
And ГўВҖВҷt is moreover most expressly markГўВҖВҷd
In holy scripture, where the twins are said
To, have struggled in the womb. Therefore, as grace
Inweaves the coronet, so every brow
Weareth its proper hue of orient light.
And merely in respect to his prime gift,
Not in reward of meritorious deed,
Hath each his several degree assignГўВҖВҷd.
In early times with their own innocence
More was not wanting, than the parentsГўВҖВҷ faith,
To save them: those first ages past, behoovГўВҖВҷd
That circumcision in the males should imp
The flight of innocent wings: but since the day
Of grace hath come, without baptismal rites
In Christ accomplishГўВҖВҷd, innocence herself
Must linger yet below. Now raise thy view
Unto the visage most resembling Christ:
For, in her splendour only, shalt thou win
The powГўВҖВҷr to look on him.ГўВҖВқ Forthwith I saw
Such floods of gladness on her visage showerГўВҖВҷd,
From holy spirits, winging that profound;
That, whatsoever I had yet beheld,
Had not so much suspended me with wonder,
Or shown me such similitude of God.
And he, who had to her descended, once,
On earth, now hailГўВҖВҷd in heavГўВҖВҷn; and on poisГўВҖВҷd wing.
ГўВҖВңAve, Maria, Gratia Plena,ГўВҖВқ sang:
To whose sweet anthem all the blissful court,
From all parts answГўВҖВҷring, rang: that holier joy
Brooded the deep serene. ГўВҖВңFather reverГўВҖВҷd:
Who deignГўВҖВҷst, for me, to quit the pleasant place,
Wherein thou sittest, by eternal lot!
Say, who that angel is, that with such glee
Beholds our queen, and so enamourГўВҖВҷd glows
Of her high beauty, that all fire he seems.ГўВҖВқ
So I again resorted to the lore
Of my wise teacher, he, whom MaryГўВҖВҷs charms
EmbellishГўВҖВҷd, as the sun the morning star;
Who thus in answer spake: ГўВҖВңIn him are summГўВҖВҷd,
Whatever of buxomness and free delight
May be in Spirit, or in angel, met:
And so beseems: for that he bare the palm
Down unto Mary, when the Son of God
VouchsafГўВҖВҷd to clothe him in terrestrial weeds.
Now let thine eyes wait heedful on my words,
And note thou of this just and pious realm
The chiefest nobles. Those, highest in bliss,
The twain, on each hand next our empress thronГўВҖВҷd,
Are as it were two roots unto this rose.
He to the left, the parent, whose rash taste
Proves bitter to his seed; and, on the right,
That ancient father of the holy church,
Into whose keeping Christ did give the keys
Of this sweet flowГўВҖВҷr: near whom behold the seer,
That, ere he died, saw all the grievous times
Of the fair bride, who with the lance and nails
Was won. And, near unto the other, rests
The leader, under whom on manna fed
ThГўВҖВҷ ungrateful nation, fickle and perverse.
On thГўВҖВҷ other part, facing to Peter, lo!
Where Anna sits, so well content to look
On her lovГўВҖВҷd daughter, that with moveless eye
She chants the loud hosanna: while, opposГўВҖВҷd
To the first father of your mortal kind,
Is Lucia, at whose hest thy lady sped,
When on the edge of ruin closГўВҖВҷd thine eye.

ГўВҖВңBut (for the vision hasteneth so an end)
Here break we off, as the good workman doth,
That shapes the cloak according to the cloth:
And to the primal love our ken shall rise;
That thou mayst penetrate the brightness, far
As sight can bear thee. Yet, alas! in sooth
Beating thy pennons, thinking to advance,
Thou backward fallГўВҖВҷst. Grace then must first be gainГўВҖВҷd;
Her grace, whose might can help thee. Thou in prayer
Seek her: and, with affection, whilst I sue,
Attend, and yield me all thy heart.ГўВҖВқ He said,
And thus the saintly orison began.




CANTO XXXIII


ГўВҖВңO virgin mother, daughter of thy Son,
Created beings all in lowliness
Surpassing, as in height, above them all,
Term by thГўВҖВҷ eternal counsel pre-ordainГўВҖВҷd,
Ennobler of thy nature, so advancГўВҖВҷd
In thee, that its great Maker did not scorn,
Himself, in his own work enclosГўВҖВҷd to dwell!
For in thy womb rekindling shone the love
RevealГўВҖВҷd, whose genial influence makes now
This flower to germin in eternal peace!
Here thou to us, of charity and love,
Art, as the noon-day torch: and art, beneath,
To mortal men, of hope a living spring.
So mighty art thou, lady! and so great,
That he who grace desireth, and comes not
To thee for aidance, fain would have desire
Fly without wings. Nor only him who asks,
Thy bounty succours, but doth freely oft
Forerun the asking. WhatsoeГўВҖВҷer may be
Of excellence in creature, pity mild,
Relenting mercy, large munificence,
Are all combinГўВҖВҷd in thee. Here kneeleth one,
Who of all spirits hath reviewГўВҖВҷd the state,
From the worldГўВҖВҷs lowest gap unto this height.
Suppliant to thee he kneels, imploring grace
For virtue, yet more high to lift his ken
Toward the bliss supreme. And I, who neГўВҖВҷer
Coveted sight, more fondly, for myself,
Than now for him, my prayers to thee prefer,
(And pray they be not scant) that thou wouldst drive
Each cloud of his mortality away;
That on the sovran pleasure he may gaze.
This also I entreat of thee, O queen!
Who canst do what thou wilt! that in him thou
Wouldst after all he hath beheld, preserve
Affection sound, and human passions quell.
Lo! Where, with Beatrice, many a saint
Stretch their claspГўВҖВҷd hands, in furtherance of my suit!ГўВҖВқ

The eyes, that heavГўВҖВҷn with love and awe regards,
FixГўВҖВҷd on the suitor, witnessГўВҖВҷd, how benign
She looks on pious prayГўВҖВҷrs: then fastenГўВҖВҷd they
On thГўВҖВҷ everlasting light, wherein no eye
Of creature, as may well be thought, so far
Can travel inward. I, meanwhile, who drew
Near to the limit, where all wishes end,
The ardour of my wish (for so behooved),
Ended within me. BeckГўВҖВҷning smilГўВҖВҷd the sage,
That I should look aloft: but, ere he bade,
Already of myself aloft I lookГўВҖВҷd;
For visual strength, refining more and more,
Bare me into the ray authentical
Of sovran light. Thenceforward, what I saw,
Was not for words to speak, nor memoryГўВҖВҷs self
To stand against such outrage on her skill.
As one, who from a dream awakenГўВҖВҷd, straight,
All he hath seen forgets; yet still retains
Impression of the feeling in his dream;
EГўВҖВҷen such am I: for all the vision dies,
As ГўВҖВҷt were, away; and yet the sense of sweet,
That sprang from it, still trickles in my heart.
Thus in the sun-thaw is the snow unsealГўВҖВҷd;
Thus in the winds on flitting leaves was lost
The SybilГўВҖВҷs sentence. O eternal beam!
(Whose height what reach of mortal thought may soar?)
Yield me again some little particle
Of what thou then appearedst, give my tongue
Power, but to leave one sparkle of thy glory,
Unto the race to come, that shall not lose
Thy triumph wholly, if thou waken aught
Of memory in me, and endure to hear
The record sound in this unequal strain.

Such keenness from the living ray I met,
That, if mine eyes had turnГўВҖВҷd away, methinks,
I had been lost; but, so emboldenГўВҖВҷd, on
I passГўВҖВҷd, as I remember, till my view
HoverГўВҖВҷd the brink of dread infinitude.

O grace! unenvying of thy boon! that gavГўВҖВҷst
Boldness to fix so earnestly my ken
On thГўВҖВҷ everlasting splendour, that I lookГўВҖВҷd,
While sight was unconsumГўВҖВҷd, and, in that depth,
Saw in one volume claspГўВҖВҷd of love, whatever
The universe unfolds; all properties
Of substance and of accident, beheld,
Compounded, yet one individual light
The whole. And of such bond methinks I saw
The universal form: for that whenever
I do but speak of it, my soul dilates
Beyond her proper self; and, till I speak,
One moment seems a longer lethargy,
Than five-and-twenty ages had appearГўВҖВҷd
To that emprize, that first made Neptune wonder
At ArgoГўВҖВҷs shadow darkening on his flood.

With fixed heed, suspense and motionless,
WondГўВҖВҷring I gazГўВҖВҷd; and admiration still
Was kindled, as I gazГўВҖВҷd. It may not be,
That one, who looks upon that light, can turn
To other object, willingly, his view.
For all the good, that will may covet, there
Is summГўВҖВҷd; and all, elsewhere defective found,
Complete. My tongue shall utter now, no more
EГўВҖВҷen what remembrance keeps, than could the babeГўВҖВҷs
That yet is moistenГўВҖВҷd at his motherГўВҖВҷs breast.
Not that the semblance of the living light
Was changГўВҖВҷd (that ever as at first remainГўВҖВҷd)
But that my vision quickening, in that sole
Appearance, still new miracles descryГўВҖВҷd,
And toilГўВҖВҷd me with the change. In that abyss
Of radiance, clear and lofty, seemГўВҖВҷd methought,
Three orbs of triple hue clipt in one bound:
And, from another, one reflected seemГўВҖВҷd,
As rainbow is from rainbow: and the third
SeemГўВҖВҷd fire, breathГўВҖВҷd equally from both. Oh speech
How feeble and how faint art thou, to give
Conception birth! Yet this to what I saw
Is less than little. Oh eternal light!
Sole in thyself that dwellst; and of thyself
Sole understood, past, present, or to come!
Thou smiledst; on that circling, which in thee
SeemГўВҖВҷd as reflected splendour, while I musГўВҖВҷd;
For I therein, methought, in its own hue
Beheld our image painted: steadfastly
I therefore porГўВҖВҷd upon the view. As one
Who versГўВҖВҷd in geometric lore, would fain
Measure the circle; and, though pondering long
And deeply, that beginning, which he needs,
Finds not; eГўВҖВҷen such was I, intent to scan
The novel wonder, and trace out the form,
How to the circle fitted, and therein
How placГўВҖВҷd: but the flight was not for my wing;
Had not a flash darted athwart my mind,
And in the spleen unfolded what it sought.

Here vigour failГўВҖВҷd the towГўВҖВҷring fantasy:
But yet the will rollГўВҖВҷd onward, like a wheel
In even motion, by the Love impellГўВҖВҷd,
That moves the sun in heavГўВҖВҷn and all the stars.






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DIVINE COMEDY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous oneГўВҖВ”the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERGГўВ„Вў
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given awayГўВҖВ”you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase ГўВҖВңProject
GutenbergГўВҖВқ), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. ГўВҖВңProject GutenbergГўВҖВқ is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (ГўВҖВңthe
FoundationГўВҖВқ or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work (any work
on which the phrase ГўВҖВңProject GutenbergГўВҖВқ appears, or with which the
phrase ГўВҖВңProject GutenbergГўВҖВқ is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase ГўВҖВңProject
GutenbergГўВҖВқ associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work in a format
other than ГўВҖВңPlain Vanilla ASCIIГўВҖВқ or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original ГўВҖВңPlain
Vanilla ASCIIГўВҖВқ or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works
provided that:

    ГўВҖВў You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, ГўВҖВңInformation about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.ГўВҖВқ
    
    ГўВҖВў You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
        works.
    
    ГўВҖВў You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    ГўВҖВў You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў collection. Despite these efforts, Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain ГўВҖВңDefects,ГўВҖВқ such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the ГўВҖВңRight
of Replacement or RefundГўВҖВқ described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ГўВҖВҳAS-ISГўВҖВҷ, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў

Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project GutenbergГўВ„ВўГўВҖВҷs
goals and ensuring that the Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The FoundationГўВҖВҷs EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your stateГўВҖВҷs laws.

The FoundationГўВҖВҷs business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the FoundationГўВҖВҷs website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
GutenbergГўВ„Вў concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project GutenbergГўВ„Вў,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


