 A ROOM WITH A VIEW ***









[Illustration]









A Room With A View



By E. M. Forster











 Part One.

 Chapter I. The Bertolini

 Chapter II. In Santa Croce with No Baedeker

 Chapter III. Music, Violets, and the Letter “S”

 Chapter IV. Fourth Chapter

 Chapter V. Possibilities of a Pleasant Outing

 Chapter VI. The Reverend Arthur Beebe, the Reverend Cuthbert Eager, Mr. Emerson, Mr. George Emerson, Miss Eleanor Lavish, Miss Charlotte Bartlett, and Miss Lucy Honeychurch Drive Out in Carriages to See a View; Italians Drive Them

 Chapter VII. They Return



 Part Two.

 Chapter VIII. Medieval

 Chapter IX. Lucy As a Work of Art

 Chapter X. Cecil as a Humourist

 Chapter XI. In Mrs. Vyse’s Well-Appointed Flat

 Chapter XII. Twelfth Chapter

 Chapter XIII. How Miss Bartlett’s Boiler Was So Tiresome

 Chapter XIV. How Lucy Faced the External Situation Bravely

 Chapter XV. The Disaster Within

 Chapter XVI. Lying to George

 Chapter XVII. Lying to Cecil

 Chapter XVIII. Lying to Mr. Beebe, Mrs. Honeychurch, Freddy, and The Servants

 Chapter XIX. Lying to Mr. Emerson

 Chapter XX. The End of the Middle Ages









PART ONE









Chapter I

The Bertolini





“The Signora had no business to do it,” said Miss Bartlett, “no

business at all. She promised us south rooms with a view close

together, instead of which here are north rooms, looking into a

courtyard, and a long way apart. Oh, Lucy!”



“And a Cockney, besides!” said Lucy, who had been further saddened by

the Signora’s unexpected accent. “It might be London.” She looked at

the two rows of English people who were sitting at the table; at the

row of white bottles of water and red bottles of wine that ran between

the English people; at the portraits of the late Queen and the late

Poet Laureate that hung behind the English people, heavily framed; at

the notice of the English church (Rev. Cuthbert Eager, M. A. Oxon.),

that was the only other decoration of the wall. “Charlotte, don’t you

feel, too, that we might be in London? I can hardly believe that all

kinds of other things are just outside. I suppose it is one’s being so

tired.”



“This meat has surely been used for soup,” said Miss Bartlett, laying

down her fork.



“I want so to see the Arno. The rooms the Signora promised us in her

letter would have looked over the Arno. The Signora had no business to

do it at all. Oh, it is a shame!”



“Any nook does for me,” Miss Bartlett continued; “but it does seem hard

that you shouldn’t have a view.”



Lucy felt that she had been selfish. “Charlotte, you mustn’t spoil me:

of course, you must look over the Arno, too. I meant that. The first

vacant room in the front—” “You must have it,” said Miss Bartlett, part

of whose travelling expenses were paid by Lucy’s mother—a piece of

generosity to which she made many a tactful allusion.



“No, no. You must have it.”



“I insist on it. Your mother would never forgive me, Lucy.”



“She would never forgive _me_.”



The ladies’ voices grew animated, and—if the sad truth be owned—a

little peevish. They were tired, and under the guise of unselfishness

they wrangled. Some of their neighbours interchanged glances, and one

of them—one of the ill-bred people whom one does meet abroad—leant

forward over the table and actually intruded into their argument. He

said:



“I have a view, I have a view.”



Miss Bartlett was startled. Generally at a pension people looked them

over for a day or two before speaking, and often did not find out that

they would “do” till they had gone. She knew that the intruder was

ill-bred, even before she glanced at him. He was an old man, of heavy

build, with a fair, shaven face and large eyes. There was something

childish in those eyes, though it was not the childishness of senility.

What exactly it was Miss Bartlett did not stop to consider, for her

glance passed on to his clothes. These did not attract her. He was

probably trying to become acquainted with them before they got into the

swim. So she assumed a dazed expression when he spoke to her, and then

said: “A view? Oh, a view! How delightful a view is!”



“This is my son,” said the old man; “his name’s George. He has a view

too.”



“Ah,” said Miss Bartlett, repressing Lucy, who was about to speak.



“What I mean,” he continued, “is that you can have our rooms, and we’ll

have yours. We’ll change.”



The better class of tourist was shocked at this, and sympathized with

the new-comers. Miss Bartlett, in reply, opened her mouth as little as

possible, and said “Thank you very much indeed; that is out of the

question.”



“Why?” said the old man, with both fists on the table.



“Because it is quite out of the question, thank you.”



“You see, we don’t like to take—” began Lucy. Her cousin again

repressed her.



“But why?” he persisted. “Women like looking at a view; men don’t.” And

he thumped with his fists like a naughty child, and turned to his son,

saying, “George, persuade them!”



“It’s so obvious they should have the rooms,” said the son. “There’s

nothing else to say.”



He did not look at the ladies as he spoke, but his voice was perplexed

and sorrowful. Lucy, too, was perplexed; but she saw that they were in

for what is known as “quite a scene,” and she had an odd feeling that

whenever these ill-bred tourists spoke the contest widened and deepened

till it dealt, not with rooms and views, but with—well, with something

quite different, whose existence she had not realized before. Now the

old man attacked Miss Bartlett almost violently: Why should she not

change? What possible objection had she? They would clear out in half

an hour.



Miss Bartlett, though skilled in the delicacies of conversation, was

powerless in the presence of brutality. It was impossible to snub any

one so gross. Her face reddened with displeasure. She looked around as

much as to say, “Are you all like this?” And two little old ladies, who

were sitting further up the table, with shawls hanging over the backs

of the chairs, looked back, clearly indicating “We are not; we are

genteel.”



“Eat your dinner, dear,” she said to Lucy, and began to toy again with

the meat that she had once censured.



Lucy mumbled that those seemed very odd people opposite.



“Eat your dinner, dear. This pension is a failure. To-morrow we will

make a change.”



Hardly had she announced this fell decision when she reversed it. The

curtains at the end of the room parted, and revealed a clergyman, stout

but attractive, who hurried forward to take his place at the table,

cheerfully apologizing for his lateness. Lucy, who had not yet acquired

decency, at once rose to her feet, exclaiming: “Oh, oh! Why, it’s Mr.

Beebe! Oh, how perfectly lovely! Oh, Charlotte, we must stop now,

however bad the rooms are. Oh!”



Miss Bartlett said, with more restraint:



“How do you do, Mr. Beebe? I expect that you have forgotten us: Miss

Bartlett and Miss Honeychurch, who were at Tunbridge Wells when you

helped the Vicar of St. Peter’s that very cold Easter.”



The clergyman, who had the air of one on a holiday, did not remember

the ladies quite as clearly as they remembered him. But he came forward

pleasantly enough and accepted the chair into which he was beckoned by

Lucy.



“I _am_ so glad to see you,” said the girl, who was in a state of

spiritual starvation, and would have been glad to see the waiter if her

cousin had permitted it. “Just fancy how small the world is. Summer

Street, too, makes it so specially funny.”



“Miss Honeychurch lives in the parish of Summer Street,” said Miss

Bartlett, filling up the gap, “and she happened to tell me in the

course of conversation that you have just accepted the living—”



“Yes, I heard from mother so last week. She didn’t know that I knew you

at Tunbridge Wells; but I wrote back at once, and I said: ‘Mr. Beebe

is—’”



“Quite right,” said the clergyman. “I move into the Rectory at Summer

Street next June. I am lucky to be appointed to such a charming

neighbourhood.”



“Oh, how glad I am! The name of our house is Windy Corner.” Mr. Beebe

bowed.



“There is mother and me generally, and my brother, though it’s not

often we get him to ch—— The church is rather far off, I mean.”



“Lucy, dearest, let Mr. Beebe eat his dinner.”



“I am eating it, thank you, and enjoying it.”



He preferred to talk to Lucy, whose playing he remembered, rather than

to Miss Bartlett, who probably remembered his sermons. He asked the

girl whether she knew Florence well, and was informed at some length

that she had never been there before. It is delightful to advise a

newcomer, and he was first in the field. “Don’t neglect the country

round,” his advice concluded. “The first fine afternoon drive up to

Fiesole, and round by Settignano, or something of that sort.”



“No!” cried a voice from the top of the table. “Mr. Beebe, you are

wrong. The first fine afternoon your ladies must go to Prato.”



“That lady looks so clever,” whispered Miss Bartlett to her cousin. “We

are in luck.”



And, indeed, a perfect torrent of information burst on them. People

told them what to see, when to see it, how to stop the electric trams,

how to get rid of the beggars, how much to give for a vellum blotter,

how much the place would grow upon them. The Pension Bertolini had

decided, almost enthusiastically, that they would do. Whichever way

they looked, kind ladies smiled and shouted at them. And above all rose

the voice of the clever lady, crying: “Prato! They must go to Prato.

That place is too sweetly squalid for words. I love it; I revel in

shaking off the trammels of respectability, as you know.”



The young man named George glanced at the clever lady, and then

returned moodily to his plate. Obviously he and his father did not do.

Lucy, in the midst of her success, found time to wish they did. It gave

her no extra pleasure that any one should be left in the cold; and when

she rose to go, she turned back and gave the two outsiders a nervous

little bow.



The father did not see it; the son acknowledged it, not by another bow,

but by raising his eyebrows and smiling; he seemed to be smiling across

something.



She hastened after her cousin, who had already disappeared through the

curtains—curtains which smote one in the face, and seemed heavy with

more than cloth. Beyond them stood the unreliable Signora, bowing

good-evening to her guests, and supported by ’Enery, her little boy,

and Victorier, her daughter. It made a curious little scene, this

attempt of the Cockney to convey the grace and geniality of the South.

And even more curious was the drawing-room, which attempted to rival

the solid comfort of a Bloomsbury boarding-house. Was this really

Italy?



Miss Bartlett was already seated on a tightly stuffed arm-chair, which

had the colour and the contours of a tomato. She was talking to Mr.

Beebe, and as she spoke, her long narrow head drove backwards and

forwards, slowly, regularly, as though she were demolishing some

invisible obstacle. “We are most grateful to you,” she was saying. “The

first evening means so much. When you arrived we were in for a

peculiarly _mauvais quart d’heure_.”



He expressed his regret.



“Do you, by any chance, know the name of an old man who sat opposite us

at dinner?”



“Emerson.”



“Is he a friend of yours?”



“We are friendly—as one is in pensions.”



“Then I will say no more.”



He pressed her very slightly, and she said more.



“I am, as it were,” she concluded, “the chaperon of my young cousin,

Lucy, and it would be a serious thing if I put her under an obligation

to people of whom we know nothing. His manner was somewhat unfortunate.

I hope I acted for the best.”



“You acted very naturally,” said he. He seemed thoughtful, and after a

few moments added: “All the same, I don’t think much harm would have

come of accepting.”



“No _harm_, of course. But we could not be under an obligation.”



“He is rather a peculiar man.” Again he hesitated, and then said

gently: “I think he would not take advantage of your acceptance, nor

expect you to show gratitude. He has the merit—if it is one—of saying

exactly what he means. He has rooms he does not value, and he thinks

you would value them. He no more thought of putting you under an

obligation than he thought of being polite. It is so difficult—at

least, I find it difficult—to understand people who speak the truth.”



Lucy was pleased, and said: “I was hoping that he was nice; I do so

always hope that people will be nice.”



“I think he is; nice and tiresome. I differ from him on almost every

point of any importance, and so, I expect—I may say I hope—you will

differ. But his is a type one disagrees with rather than deplores. When

he first came here he not unnaturally put people’s backs up. He has no

tact and no manners—I don’t mean by that that he has bad manners—and he

will not keep his opinions to himself. We nearly complained about him

to our depressing Signora, but I am glad to say we thought better of

it.”



“Am I to conclude,” said Miss Bartlett, “that he is a Socialist?”



Mr. Beebe accepted the convenient word, not without a slight twitching

of the lips.



“And presumably he has brought up his son to be a Socialist, too?”



“I hardly know George, for he hasn’t learnt to talk yet. He seems a

nice creature, and I think he has brains. Of course, he has all his

father’s mannerisms, and it is quite possible that he, too, may be a

Socialist.”



“Oh, you relieve me,” said Miss Bartlett. “So you think I ought to have

accepted their offer? You feel I have been narrow-minded and

suspicious?”



“Not at all,” he answered; “I never suggested that.”



“But ought I not to apologize, at all events, for my apparent

rudeness?”



He replied, with some irritation, that it would be quite unnecessary,

and got up from his seat to go to the smoking-room.



“Was I a bore?” said Miss Bartlett, as soon as he had disappeared. “Why

didn’t you talk, Lucy? He prefers young people, I’m sure. I do hope I

haven’t monopolized him. I hoped you would have him all the evening, as

well as all dinner-time.”



“He is nice,” exclaimed Lucy. “Just what I remember. He seems to see

good in everyone. No one would take him for a clergyman.”



“My dear Lucia—”



“Well, you know what I mean. And you know how clergymen generally

laugh; Mr. Beebe laughs just like an ordinary man.”



“Funny girl! How you do remind me of your mother. I wonder if she will

approve of Mr. Beebe.”



“I’m sure she will; and so will Freddy.”



“I think everyone at Windy Corner will approve; it is the fashionable

world. I am used to Tunbridge Wells, where we are all hopelessly behind

the times.”



“Yes,” said Lucy despondently.



There was a haze of disapproval in the air, but whether the disapproval

was of herself, or of Mr. Beebe, or of the fashionable world at Windy

Corner, or of the narrow world at Tunbridge Wells, she could not

determine. She tried to locate it, but as usual she blundered. Miss

Bartlett sedulously denied disapproving of any one, and added “I am

afraid you are finding me a very depressing companion.”



And the girl again thought: “I must have been selfish or unkind; I must

be more careful. It is so dreadful for Charlotte, being poor.”



Fortunately one of the little old ladies, who for some time had been

smiling very benignly, now approached and asked if she might be allowed

to sit where Mr. Beebe had sat. Permission granted, she began to

chatter gently about Italy, the plunge it had been to come there, the

gratifying success of the plunge, the improvement in her sister’s

health, the necessity of closing the bed-room windows at night, and of

thoroughly emptying the water-bottles in the morning. She handled her

subjects agreeably, and they were, perhaps, more worthy of attention

than the high discourse upon Guelfs and Ghibellines which was

proceeding tempestuously at the other end of the room. It was a real

catastrophe, not a mere episode, that evening of hers at Venice, when

she had found in her bedroom something that is one worse than a flea,

though one better than something else.



“But here you are as safe as in England. Signora Bertolini is so

English.”



“Yet our rooms smell,” said poor Lucy. “We dread going to bed.”



“Ah, then you look into the court.” She sighed. “If only Mr. Emerson

was more tactful! We were so sorry for you at dinner.”



“I think he was meaning to be kind.”



“Undoubtedly he was,” said Miss Bartlett.



“Mr. Beebe has just been scolding me for my suspicious nature. Of

course, I was holding back on my cousin’s account.”



“Of course,” said the little old lady; and they murmured that one could

not be too careful with a young girl.



Lucy tried to look demure, but could not help feeling a great fool. No

one was careful with her at home; or, at all events, she had not

noticed it.



“About old Mr. Emerson—I hardly know. No, he is not tactful; yet, have

you ever noticed that there are people who do things which are most

indelicate, and yet at the same time—beautiful?”



“Beautiful?” said Miss Bartlett, puzzled at the word. “Are not beauty

and delicacy the same?”



“So one would have thought,” said the other helplessly. “But things are

so difficult, I sometimes think.”



She proceeded no further into things, for Mr. Beebe reappeared, looking

extremely pleasant.



“Miss Bartlett,” he cried, “it’s all right about the rooms. I’m so

glad. Mr. Emerson was talking about it in the smoking-room, and knowing

what I did, I encouraged him to make the offer again. He has let me

come and ask you. He would be so pleased.”



“Oh, Charlotte,” cried Lucy to her cousin, “we must have the rooms now.

The old man is just as nice and kind as he can be.”



Miss Bartlett was silent.



“I fear,” said Mr. Beebe, after a pause, “that I have been officious. I

must apologize for my interference.”



Gravely displeased, he turned to go. Not till then did Miss Bartlett

reply: “My own wishes, dearest Lucy, are unimportant in comparison with

yours. It would be hard indeed if I stopped you doing as you liked at

Florence, when I am only here through your kindness. If you wish me to

turn these gentlemen out of their rooms, I will do it. Would you then,

Mr. Beebe, kindly tell Mr. Emerson that I accept his kind offer, and

then conduct him to me, in order that I may thank him personally?”



She raised her voice as she spoke; it was heard all over the

drawing-room, and silenced the Guelfs and the Ghibellines. The

clergyman, inwardly cursing the female sex, bowed, and departed with

her message.



“Remember, Lucy, I alone am implicated in this. I do not wish the

acceptance to come from you. Grant me that, at all events.”



Mr. Beebe was back, saying rather nervously:



“Mr. Emerson is engaged, but here is his son instead.”



The young man gazed down on the three ladies, who felt seated on the

floor, so low were their chairs.



“My father,” he said, “is in his bath, so you cannot thank him

personally. But any message given by you to me will be given by me to

him as soon as he comes out.”



Miss Bartlett was unequal to the bath. All her barbed civilities came

forth wrong end first. Young Mr. Emerson scored a notable triumph to

the delight of Mr. Beebe and to the secret delight of Lucy.



“Poor young man!” said Miss Bartlett, as soon as he had gone.



“How angry he is with his father about the rooms! It is all he can do

to keep polite.”



“In half an hour or so your rooms will be ready,” said Mr. Beebe. Then

looking rather thoughtfully at the two cousins, he retired to his own

rooms, to write up his philosophic diary.



“Oh, dear!” breathed the little old lady, and shuddered as if all the

winds of heaven had entered the apartment. “Gentlemen sometimes do not

realize—” Her voice faded away, but Miss Bartlett seemed to understand

and a conversation developed, in which gentlemen who did not thoroughly

realize played a principal part. Lucy, not realizing either, was

reduced to literature. Taking up Baedeker’s Handbook to Northern Italy,

she committed to memory the most important dates of Florentine History.

For she was determined to enjoy herself on the morrow. Thus the

half-hour crept profitably away, and at last Miss Bartlett rose with a

sigh, and said:



“I think one might venture now. No, Lucy, do not stir. I will

superintend the move.”



“How you do do everything,” said Lucy.



“Naturally, dear. It is my affair.”



“But I would like to help you.”



“No, dear.”



Charlotte’s energy! And her unselfishness! She had been thus all her

life, but really, on this Italian tour, she was surpassing herself. So

Lucy felt, or strove to feel. And yet—there was a rebellious spirit in

her which wondered whether the acceptance might not have been less

delicate and more beautiful. At all events, she entered her own room

without any feeling of joy.



“I want to explain,” said Miss Bartlett, “why it is that I have taken

the largest room. Naturally, of course, I should have given it to you;

but I happen to know that it belongs to the young man, and I was sure

your mother would not like it.”



Lucy was bewildered.



“If you are to accept a favour it is more suitable you should be under

an obligation to his father than to him. I am a woman of the world, in

my small way, and I know where things lead to. However, Mr. Beebe is a

guarantee of a sort that they will not presume on this.”



“Mother wouldn’t mind I’m sure,” said Lucy, but again had the sense of

larger and unsuspected issues.



Miss Bartlett only sighed, and enveloped her in a protecting embrace as

she wished her good-night. It gave Lucy the sensation of a fog, and

when she reached her own room she opened the window and breathed the

clean night air, thinking of the kind old man who had enabled her to

see the lights dancing in the Arno and the cypresses of San Miniato,

and the foot-hills of the Apennines, black against the rising moon.



Miss Bartlett, in her room, fastened the window-shutters and locked the

door, and then made a tour of the apartment to see where the cupboards

led, and whether there were any oubliettes or secret entrances. It was

then that she saw, pinned up over the washstand, a sheet of paper on

which was scrawled an enormous note of interrogation. Nothing more.



“What does it mean?” she thought, and she examined it carefully by the

light of a candle. Meaningless at first, it gradually became menacing,

obnoxious, portentous with evil. She was seized with an impulse to

destroy it, but fortunately remembered that she had no right to do so,

since it must be the property of young Mr. Emerson. So she unpinned it

carefully, and put it between two pieces of blotting-paper to keep it

clean for him. Then she completed her inspection of the room, sighed

heavily according to her habit, and went to bed.









Chapter II

In Santa Croce with No Baedeker





It was pleasant to wake up in Florence, to open the eyes upon a bright

bare room, with a floor of red tiles which look clean though they are

not; with a painted ceiling whereon pink griffins and blue amorini

sport in a forest of yellow violins and bassoons. It was pleasant, too,

to fling wide the windows, pinching the fingers in unfamiliar

fastenings, to lean out into sunshine with beautiful hills and trees

and marble churches opposite, and close below, the Arno, gurgling

against the embankment of the road.



Over the river men were at work with spades and sieves on the sandy

foreshore, and on the river was a boat, also diligently employed for

some mysterious end. An electric tram came rushing underneath the

window. No one was inside it, except one tourist; but its platforms

were overflowing with Italians, who preferred to stand. Children tried

to hang on behind, and the conductor, with no malice, spat in their

faces to make them let go. Then soldiers appeared—good-looking,

undersized men—wearing each a knapsack covered with mangy fur, and a

great-coat which had been cut for some larger soldier. Beside them

walked officers, looking foolish and fierce, and before them went

little boys, turning somersaults in time with the band. The tramcar

became entangled in their ranks, and moved on painfully, like a

caterpillar in a swarm of ants. One of the little boys fell down, and

some white bullocks came out of an archway. Indeed, if it had not been

for the good advice of an old man who was selling button-hooks, the

road might never have got clear.



Over such trivialities as these many a valuable hour may slip away, and

the traveller who has gone to Italy to study the tactile values of

Giotto, or the corruption of the Papacy, may return remembering nothing

but the blue sky and the men and women who live under it. So it was as

well that Miss Bartlett should tap and come in, and having commented on

Lucy’s leaving the door unlocked, and on her leaning out of the window

before she was fully dressed, should urge her to hasten herself, or the

best of the day would be gone. By the time Lucy was ready her cousin

had done her breakfast, and was listening to the clever lady among the

crumbs.



A conversation then ensued, on not unfamiliar lines. Miss Bartlett was,

after all, a wee bit tired, and thought they had better spend the

morning settling in; unless Lucy would at all like to go out? Lucy

would rather like to go out, as it was her first day in Florence, but,

of course, she could go alone. Miss Bartlett could not allow this. Of

course she would accompany Lucy everywhere. Oh, certainly not; Lucy

would stop with her cousin. Oh, no! that would never do. Oh, yes!



At this point the clever lady broke in.



“If it is Mrs. Grundy who is troubling you, I do assure you that you

can neglect the good person. Being English, Miss Honeychurch will be

perfectly safe. Italians understand. A dear friend of mine, Contessa

Baroncelli, has two daughters, and when she cannot send a maid to

school with them, she lets them go in sailor-hats instead. Every one

takes them for English, you see, especially if their hair is strained

tightly behind.”



Miss Bartlett was unconvinced by the safety of Contessa Baroncelli’s

daughters. She was determined to take Lucy herself, her head not being

so very bad. The clever lady then said that she was going to spend a

long morning in Santa Croce, and if Lucy would come too, she would be

delighted.



“I will take you by a dear dirty back way, Miss Honeychurch, and if you

bring me luck, we shall have an adventure.”



Lucy said that this was most kind, and at once opened the Baedeker, to

see where Santa Croce was.



“Tut, tut! Miss Lucy! I hope we shall soon emancipate you from

Baedeker. He does but touch the surface of things. As to the true

Italy—he does not even dream of it. The true Italy is only to be found

by patient observation.”



This sounded very interesting, and Lucy hurried over her breakfast, and

started with her new friend in high spirits. Italy was coming at last.

The Cockney Signora and her works had vanished like a bad dream.



Miss Lavish—for that was the clever lady’s name—turned to the right

along the sunny Lung’ Arno. How delightfully warm! But a wind down the

side streets cut like a knife, didn’t it? Ponte alle

Grazie—particularly interesting, mentioned by Dante. San

Miniato—beautiful as well as interesting; the crucifix that kissed a

murderer—Miss Honeychurch would remember the story. The men on the

river were fishing. (Untrue; but then, so is most information.) Then

Miss Lavish darted under the archway of the white bullocks, and she

stopped, and she cried:



“A smell! a true Florentine smell! Every city, let me teach you, has

its own smell.”



“Is it a very nice smell?” said Lucy, who had inherited from her mother

a distaste to dirt.



“One doesn’t come to Italy for niceness,” was the retort; “one comes

for life. Buon giorno! Buon giorno!” bowing right and left. “Look at

that adorable wine-cart! How the driver stares at us, dear, simple

soul!”



So Miss Lavish proceeded through the streets of the city of Florence,

short, fidgety, and playful as a kitten, though without a kitten’s

grace. It was a treat for the girl to be with any one so clever and so

cheerful; and a blue military cloak, such as an Italian officer wears,

only increased the sense of festivity.



“Buon giorno! Take the word of an old woman, Miss Lucy: you will never

repent of a little civility to your inferiors. _That_ is the true

democracy. Though I am a real Radical as well. There, now you’re

shocked.”



“Indeed, I’m not!” exclaimed Lucy. “We are Radicals, too, out and out.

My father always voted for Mr. Gladstone, until he was so dreadful

about Ireland.”



“I see, I see. And now you have gone over to the enemy.”



“Oh, please—! If my father was alive, I am sure he would vote Radical

again now that Ireland is all right. And as it is, the glass over our

front door was broken last election, and Freddy is sure it was the

Tories; but mother says nonsense, a tramp.”



“Shameful! A manufacturing district, I suppose?”



“No—in the Surrey hills. About five miles from Dorking, looking over

the Weald.”



Miss Lavish seemed interested, and slackened her trot.



“What a delightful part; I know it so well. It is full of the very

nicest people. Do you know Sir Harry Otway—a Radical if ever there

was?”



“Very well indeed.”



“And old Mrs. Butterworth the philanthropist?”



“Why, she rents a field of us! How funny!”



Miss Lavish looked at the narrow ribbon of sky, and murmured: “Oh, you

have property in Surrey?”



“Hardly any,” said Lucy, fearful of being thought a snob. “Only thirty

acres—just the garden, all downhill, and some fields.”



Miss Lavish was not disgusted, and said it was just the size of her

aunt’s Suffolk estate. Italy receded. They tried to remember the last

name of Lady Louisa someone, who had taken a house near Summer Street

the other year, but she had not liked it, which was odd of her. And

just as Miss Lavish had got the name, she broke off and exclaimed:



“Bless us! Bless us and save us! We’ve lost the way.”



Certainly they had seemed a long time in reaching Santa Croce, the

tower of which had been plainly visible from the landing window. But

Miss Lavish had said so much about knowing her Florence by heart, that

Lucy had followed her with no misgivings.



“Lost! lost! My dear Miss Lucy, during our political diatribes we have

taken a wrong turning. How those horrid Conservatives would jeer at us!

What are we to do? Two lone females in an unknown town. Now, this is

what _I_ call an adventure.”



Lucy, who wanted to see Santa Croce, suggested, as a possible solution,

that they should ask the way there.



“Oh, but that is the word of a craven! And no, you are not, not, _not_

to look at your Baedeker. Give it to me; I shan’t let you carry it. We

will simply drift.”



Accordingly they drifted through a series of those grey-brown streets,

neither commodious nor picturesque, in which the eastern quarter of the

city abounds. Lucy soon lost interest in the discontent of Lady Louisa,

and became discontented herself. For one ravishing moment Italy

appeared. She stood in the Square of the Annunziata and saw in the

living terra-cotta those divine babies whom no cheap reproduction can

ever stale. There they stood, with their shining limbs bursting from

the garments of charity, and their strong white arms extended against

circlets of heaven. Lucy thought she had never seen anything more

beautiful; but Miss Lavish, with a shriek of dismay, dragged her

forward, declaring that they were out of their path now by at least a

mile.



The hour was approaching at which the continental breakfast begins, or

rather ceases, to tell, and the ladies bought some hot chestnut paste

out of a little shop, because it looked so typical. It tasted partly of

the paper in which it was wrapped, partly of hair oil, partly of the

great unknown. But it gave them strength to drift into another Piazza,

large and dusty, on the farther side of which rose a black-and-white

façade of surpassing ugliness. Miss Lavish spoke to it dramatically. It

was Santa Croce. The adventure was over.



“Stop a minute; let those two people go on, or I shall have to speak to

them. I do detest conventional intercourse. Nasty! they are going into

the church, too. Oh, the Britisher abroad!”



“We sat opposite them at dinner last night. They have given us their

rooms. They were so very kind.”



“Look at their figures!” laughed Miss Lavish. “They walk through my

Italy like a pair of cows. It’s very naughty of me, but I would like to

set an examination paper at Dover, and turn back every tourist who

couldn’t pass it.”



“What would you ask us?”



Miss Lavish laid her hand pleasantly on Lucy’s arm, as if to suggest

that she, at all events, would get full marks. In this exalted mood

they reached the steps of the great church, and were about to enter it

when Miss Lavish stopped, squeaked, flung up her arms, and cried:



“There goes my local-colour box! I must have a word with him!”



And in a moment she was away over the Piazza, her military cloak

flapping in the wind; nor did she slacken speed till she caught up an

old man with white whiskers, and nipped him playfully upon the arm.



Lucy waited for nearly ten minutes. Then she began to get tired. The

beggars worried her, the dust blew in her eyes, and she remembered that

a young girl ought not to loiter in public places. She descended slowly

into the Piazza with the intention of rejoining Miss Lavish, who was

really almost too original. But at that moment Miss Lavish and her

local-colour box moved also, and disappeared down a side street, both

gesticulating largely. Tears of indignation came to Lucy’s eyes partly

because Miss Lavish had jilted her, partly because she had taken her

Baedeker. How could she find her way home? How could she find her way

about in Santa Croce? Her first morning was ruined, and she might never

be in Florence again. A few minutes ago she had been all high spirits,

talking as a woman of culture, and half persuading herself that she was

full of originality. Now she entered the church depressed and

humiliated, not even able to remember whether it was built by the

Franciscans or the Dominicans. Of course, it must be a wonderful

building. But how like a barn! And how very cold! Of course, it

contained frescoes by Giotto, in the presence of whose tactile values

she was capable of feeling what was proper. But who was to tell her

which they were? She walked about disdainfully, unwilling to be

enthusiastic over monuments of uncertain authorship or date. There was

no one even to tell her which, of all the sepulchral slabs that paved

the nave and transepts, was the one that was really beautiful, the one

that had been most praised by Mr. Ruskin.



Then the pernicious charm of Italy worked on her, and, instead of

acquiring information, she began to be happy. She puzzled out the

Italian notices—the notices that forbade people to introduce dogs into

the church—the notice that prayed people, in the interest of health and

out of respect to the sacred edifice in which they found themselves,

not to spit. She watched the tourists; their noses were as red as their

Baedekers, so cold was Santa Croce. She beheld the horrible fate that

overtook three Papists—two he-babies and a she-baby—who began their

career by sousing each other with the Holy Water, and then proceeded to

the Machiavelli memorial, dripping but hallowed. Advancing towards it

very slowly and from immense distances, they touched the stone with

their fingers, with their handkerchiefs, with their heads, and then

retreated. What could this mean? They did it again and again. Then Lucy

realized that they had mistaken Machiavelli for some saint, hoping to

acquire virtue. Punishment followed quickly. The smallest he-baby

stumbled over one of the sepulchral slabs so much admired by Mr.

Ruskin, and entangled his feet in the features of a recumbent bishop.

Protestant as she was, Lucy darted forward. She was too late. He fell

heavily upon the prelate’s upturned toes.



“Hateful bishop!” exclaimed the voice of old Mr. Emerson, who had

darted forward also. “Hard in life, hard in death. Go out into the

sunshine, little boy, and kiss your hand to the sun, for that is where

you ought to be. Intolerable bishop!”



The child screamed frantically at these words, and at these dreadful

people who picked him up, dusted him, rubbed his bruises, and told him

not to be superstitious.



“Look at him!” said Mr. Emerson to Lucy. “Here’s a mess: a baby hurt,

cold, and frightened! But what else can you expect from a church?”



The child’s legs had become as melting wax. Each time that old Mr.

Emerson and Lucy set it erect it collapsed with a roar. Fortunately an

Italian lady, who ought to have been saying her prayers, came to the

rescue. By some mysterious virtue, which mothers alone possess, she

stiffened the little boy’s back-bone and imparted strength to his

knees. He stood. Still gibbering with agitation, he walked away.



“You are a clever woman,” said Mr. Emerson. “You have done more than

all the relics in the world. I am not of your creed, but I do believe

in those who make their fellow-creatures happy. There is no scheme of

the universe—”



He paused for a phrase.



“Niente,” said the Italian lady, and returned to her prayers.



“I’m not sure she understands English,” suggested Lucy.



In her chastened mood she no longer despised the Emersons. She was

determined to be gracious to them, beautiful rather than delicate, and,

if possible, to erase Miss Bartlett’s civility by some gracious

reference to the pleasant rooms.



“That woman understands everything,” was Mr. Emerson’s reply. “But what

are you doing here? Are you doing the church? Are you through with the

church?”



“No,” cried Lucy, remembering her grievance. “I came here with Miss

Lavish, who was to explain everything; and just by the door—it is too

bad!—she simply ran away, and after waiting quite a time, I had to come

in by myself.”



“Why shouldn’t you?” said Mr. Emerson.



“Yes, why shouldn’t you come by yourself?” said the son, addressing the

young lady for the first time.



“But Miss Lavish has even taken away Baedeker.”



“Baedeker?” said Mr. Emerson. “I’m glad it’s _that_ you minded. It’s

worth minding, the loss of a Baedeker. _That’s_ worth minding.”



Lucy was puzzled. She was again conscious of some new idea, and was not

sure whither it would lead her.



“If you’ve no Baedeker,” said the son, “you’d better join us.” Was this

where the idea would lead? She took refuge in her dignity.



“Thank you very much, but I could not think of that. I hope you do not

suppose that I came to join on to you. I really came to help with the

child, and to thank you for so kindly giving us your rooms last night.

I hope that you have not been put to any great inconvenience.”



“My dear,” said the old man gently, “I think that you are repeating

what you have heard older people say. You are pretending to be touchy;

but you are not really. Stop being so tiresome, and tell me instead

what part of the church you want to see. To take you to it will be a

real pleasure.”



Now, this was abominably impertinent, and she ought to have been

furious. But it is sometimes as difficult to lose one’s temper as it is

difficult at other times to keep it. Lucy could not get cross. Mr.

Emerson was an old man, and surely a girl might humour him. On the

other hand, his son was a young man, and she felt that a girl ought to

be offended with him, or at all events be offended before him. It was

at him that she gazed before replying.



“I am not touchy, I hope. It is the Giottos that I want to see, if you

will kindly tell me which they are.”



The son nodded. With a look of sombre satisfaction, he led the way to

the Peruzzi Chapel. There was a hint of the teacher about him. She felt

like a child in school who had answered a question rightly.



The chapel was already filled with an earnest congregation, and out of

them rose the voice of a lecturer, directing them how to worship

Giotto, not by tactful valuations, but by the standards of the spirit.



“Remember,” he was saying, “the facts about this church of Santa Croce;

how it was built by faith in the full fervour of medievalism, before

any taint of the Renaissance had appeared. Observe how Giotto in these

frescoes—now, unhappily, ruined by restoration—is untroubled by the

snares of anatomy and perspective. Could anything be more majestic,

more pathetic, beautiful, true? How little, we feel, avails knowledge

and technical cleverness against a man who truly feels!”



“No!” exclaimed Mr. Emerson, in much too loud a voice for church.

“Remember nothing of the sort! Built by faith indeed! That simply means

the workmen weren’t paid properly. And as for the frescoes, I see no

truth in them. Look at that fat man in blue! He must weigh as much as I

do, and he is shooting into the sky like an air balloon.”



He was referring to the fresco of the “Ascension of St. John.” Inside,

the lecturer’s voice faltered, as well it might. The audience shifted

uneasily, and so did Lucy. She was sure that she ought not to be with

these men; but they had cast a spell over her. They were so serious and

so strange that she could not remember how to behave.



“Now, did this happen, or didn’t it? Yes or no?”



George replied:



“It happened like this, if it happened at all. I would rather go up to

heaven by myself than be pushed by cherubs; and if I got there I should

like my friends to lean out of it, just as they do here.”



“You will never go up,” said his father. “You and I, dear boy, will lie

at peace in the earth that bore us, and our names will disappear as

surely as our work survives.”



“Some of the people can only see the empty grave, not the saint,

whoever he is, going up. It did happen like that, if it happened at

all.”



“Pardon me,” said a frigid voice. “The chapel is somewhat small for two

parties. We will incommode you no longer.”



The lecturer was a clergyman, and his audience must be also his flock,

for they held prayer-books as well as guide-books in their hands. They

filed out of the chapel in silence. Amongst them were the two little

old ladies of the Pension Bertolini—Miss Teresa and Miss Catherine

Alan.



“Stop!” cried Mr. Emerson. “There’s plenty of room for us all. Stop!”



The procession disappeared without a word.



Soon the lecturer could be heard in the next chapel, describing the

life of St. Francis.



“George, I do believe that clergyman is the Brixton curate.”



George went into the next chapel and returned, saying “Perhaps he is. I

don’t remember.”



“Then I had better speak to him and remind him who I am. It’s that Mr.

Eager. Why did he go? Did we talk too loud? How vexatious. I shall go

and say we are sorry. Hadn’t I better? Then perhaps he will come back.”



“He will not come back,” said George.



But Mr. Emerson, contrite and unhappy, hurried away to apologize to the

Rev. Cuthbert Eager. Lucy, apparently absorbed in a lunette, could hear

the lecture again interrupted, the anxious, aggressive voice of the old

man, the curt, injured replies of his opponent. The son, who took every

little contretemps as if it were a tragedy, was listening also.



“My father has that effect on nearly everyone,” he informed her. “He

will try to be kind.”



“I hope we all try,” said she, smiling nervously.



“Because we think it improves our characters. But he is kind to people

because he loves them; and they find him out, and are offended, or

frightened.”



“How silly of them!” said Lucy, though in her heart she sympathized; “I

think that a kind action done tactfully—”



“Tact!”



He threw up his head in disdain. Apparently she had given the wrong

answer. She watched the singular creature pace up and down the chapel.

For a young man his face was rugged, and—until the shadows fell upon

it—hard. Enshadowed, it sprang into tenderness. She saw him once again

at Rome, on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, carrying a burden of

acorns. Healthy and muscular, he yet gave her the feeling of greyness,

of tragedy that might only find solution in the night. The feeling soon

passed; it was unlike her to have entertained anything so subtle. Born

of silence and of unknown emotion, it passed when Mr. Emerson returned,

and she could re-enter the world of rapid talk, which was alone

familiar to her.



“Were you snubbed?” asked his son tranquilly.



“But we have spoilt the pleasure of I don’t know how many people. They

won’t come back.”



“...full of innate sympathy...quickness to perceive good in

others...vision of the brotherhood of man...” Scraps of the lecture on

St. Francis came floating round the partition wall.



“Don’t let us spoil yours,” he continued to Lucy. “Have you looked at

those saints?”



“Yes,” said Lucy. “They are lovely. Do you know which is the tombstone

that is praised in Ruskin?”



He did not know, and suggested that they should try to guess it.

George, rather to her relief, refused to move, and she and the old man

wandered not unpleasantly about Santa Croce, which, though it is like a

barn, has harvested many beautiful things inside its walls. There were

also beggars to avoid and guides to dodge round the pillars, and an old

lady with her dog, and here and there a priest modestly edging to his

Mass through the groups of tourists. But Mr. Emerson was only half

interested. He watched the lecturer, whose success he believed he had

impaired, and then he anxiously watched his son.



“Why will he look at that fresco?” he said uneasily. “I saw nothing in

it.”



“I like Giotto,” she replied. “It is so wonderful what they say about

his tactile values. Though I like things like the Della Robbia babies

better.”



“So you ought. A baby is worth a dozen saints. And my baby’s worth the

whole of Paradise, and as far as I can see he lives in Hell.”



Lucy again felt that this did not do.



“In Hell,” he repeated. “He’s unhappy.”



“Oh, dear!” said Lucy.



“How can he be unhappy when he is strong and alive? What more is one to

give him? And think how he has been brought up—free from all the

superstition and ignorance that lead men to hate one another in the

name of God. With such an education as that, I thought he was bound to

grow up happy.”



She was no theologian, but she felt that here was a very foolish old

man, as well as a very irreligious one. She also felt that her mother

might not like her talking to that kind of person, and that Charlotte

would object most strongly.



“What are we to do with him?” he asked. “He comes out for his holiday

to Italy, and behaves—like that; like the little child who ought to

have been playing, and who hurt himself upon the tombstone. Eh? What

did you say?”



Lucy had made no suggestion. Suddenly he said:



“Now don’t be stupid over this. I don’t require you to fall in love

with my boy, but I do think you might try and understand him. You are

nearer his age, and if you let yourself go I am sure you are sensible.

You might help me. He has known so few women, and you have the time.

You stop here several weeks, I suppose? But let yourself go. You are

inclined to get muddled, if I may judge from last night. Let yourself

go. Pull out from the depths those thoughts that you do not understand,

and spread them out in the sunlight and know the meaning of them. By

understanding George you may learn to understand yourself. It will be

good for both of you.”



To this extraordinary speech Lucy found no answer.



“I only know what it is that’s wrong with him; not why it is.”



“And what is it?” asked Lucy fearfully, expecting some harrowing tale.



“The old trouble; things won’t fit.”



“What things?”



“The things of the universe. It is quite true. They don’t.”



“Oh, Mr. Emerson, whatever do you mean?”



In his ordinary voice, so that she scarcely realized he was quoting

poetry, he said:



“‘From far, from eve and morning,

    And yon twelve-winded sky,

The stuff of life to knit me

    Blew hither: here am I’





George and I both know this, but why does it distress him? We know that

we come from the winds, and that we shall return to them; that all life

is perhaps a knot, a tangle, a blemish in the eternal smoothness. But

why should this make us unhappy? Let us rather love one another, and

work and rejoice. I don’t believe in this world sorrow.”



Miss Honeychurch assented.



“Then make my boy think like us. Make him realize that by the side of

the everlasting Why there is a Yes—a transitory Yes if you like, but a

Yes.”



Suddenly she laughed; surely one ought to laugh. A young man melancholy

because the universe wouldn’t fit, because life was a tangle or a wind,

or a Yes, or something!



“I’m very sorry,” she cried. “You’ll think me unfeeling, but—but—” Then

she became matronly. “Oh, but your son wants employment. Has he no

particular hobby? Why, I myself have worries, but I can generally

forget them at the piano; and collecting stamps did no end of good for

my brother. Perhaps Italy bores him; you ought to try the Alps or the

Lakes.”



The old man’s face saddened, and he touched her gently with his hand.

This did not alarm her; she thought that her advice had impressed him

and that he was thanking her for it. Indeed, he no longer alarmed her

at all; she regarded him as a kind thing, but quite silly. Her feelings

were as inflated spiritually as they had been an hour ago esthetically,

before she lost Baedeker. The dear George, now striding towards them

over the tombstones, seemed both pitiable and absurd. He approached,

his face in the shadow. He said:



“Miss Bartlett.”



“Oh, good gracious me!” said Lucy, suddenly collapsing and again seeing

the whole of life in a new perspective. “Where? Where?”



“In the nave.”



“I see. Those gossiping little Miss Alans must have—” She checked

herself.



“Poor girl!” exploded Mr. Emerson. “Poor girl!”



She could not let this pass, for it was just what she was feeling

herself.



“Poor girl? I fail to understand the point of that remark. I think

myself a very fortunate girl, I assure you. I’m thoroughly happy, and

having a splendid time. Pray don’t waste time mourning over _me_.

There’s enough sorrow in the world, isn’t there, without trying to

invent it. Good-bye. Thank you both so much for all your kindness. Ah,

yes! there does come my cousin. A delightful morning! Santa Croce is a

wonderful church.”



She joined her cousin.









Chapter III

Music, Violets, and the Letter “S”





It so happened that Lucy, who found daily life rather chaotic, entered

a more solid world when she opened the piano. She was then no longer

either deferential or patronizing; no longer either a rebel or a slave.

The kingdom of music is not the kingdom of this world; it will accept

those whom breeding and intellect and culture have alike rejected. The

commonplace person begins to play, and shoots into the empyrean without

effort, whilst we look up, marvelling how he has escaped us, and

thinking how we could worship him and love him, would he but translate

his visions into human words, and his experiences into human actions.

Perhaps he cannot; certainly he does not, or does so very seldom. Lucy

had done so never.



She was no dazzling _exécutante;_ her runs were not at all like strings

of pearls, and she struck no more right notes than was suitable for one

of her age and situation. Nor was she the passionate young lady, who

performs so tragically on a summer’s evening with the window open.

Passion was there, but it could not be easily labelled; it slipped

between love and hatred and jealousy, and all the furniture of the

pictorial style. And she was tragical only in the sense that she was

great, for she loved to play on the side of Victory. Victory of what

and over what—that is more than the words of daily life can tell us.

But that some sonatas of Beethoven are written tragic no one can

gainsay; yet they can triumph or despair as the player decides, and

Lucy had decided that they should triumph.



A very wet afternoon at the Bertolini permitted her to do the thing she

really liked, and after lunch she opened the little draped piano. A few

people lingered round and praised her playing, but finding that she

made no reply, dispersed to their rooms to write up their diaries or to

sleep. She took no notice of Mr. Emerson looking for his son, nor of

Miss Bartlett looking for Miss Lavish, nor of Miss Lavish looking for

her cigarette-case. Like every true performer, she was intoxicated by

the mere feel of the notes: they were fingers caressing her own; and by

touch, not by sound alone, did she come to her desire.



Mr. Beebe, sitting unnoticed in the window, pondered this illogical

element in Miss Honeychurch, and recalled the occasion at Tunbridge

Wells when he had discovered it. It was at one of those entertainments

where the upper classes entertain the lower. The seats were filled with

a respectful audience, and the ladies and gentlemen of the parish,

under the auspices of their vicar, sang, or recited, or imitated the

drawing of a champagne cork. Among the promised items was “Miss

Honeychurch. Piano. Beethoven,” and Mr. Beebe was wondering whether it

would be Adelaida, or the march of The Ruins of Athens, when his

composure was disturbed by the opening bars of Opus 111. He was in

suspense all through the introduction, for not until the pace quickens

does one know what the performer intends. With the roar of the opening

theme he knew that things were going extraordinarily; in the chords

that herald the conclusion he heard the hammer strokes of victory. He

was glad that she only played the first movement, for he could have

paid no attention to the winding intricacies of the measures of

nine-sixteen. The audience clapped, no less respectful. It was Mr.

Beebe who started the stamping; it was all that one could do.



“Who is she?” he asked the vicar afterwards.



“Cousin of one of my parishioners. I do not consider her choice of a

piece happy. Beethoven is so usually simple and direct in his appeal

that it is sheer perversity to choose a thing like that, which, if

anything, disturbs.”



“Introduce me.”



“She will be delighted. She and Miss Bartlett are full of the praises

of your sermon.”



“My sermon?” cried Mr. Beebe. “Why ever did she listen to it?”



When he was introduced he understood why, for Miss Honeychurch,

disjoined from her music stool, was only a young lady with a quantity

of dark hair and a very pretty, pale, undeveloped face. She loved going

to concerts, she loved stopping with her cousin, she loved iced coffee

and meringues. He did not doubt that she loved his sermon also. But

before he left Tunbridge Wells he made a remark to the vicar, which he

now made to Lucy herself when she closed the little piano and moved

dreamily towards him:



“If Miss Honeychurch ever takes to live as she plays, it will be very

exciting both for us and for her.”



Lucy at once re-entered daily life.



“Oh, what a funny thing! Some one said just the same to mother, and she

said she trusted I should never live a duet.”



“Doesn’t Mrs. Honeychurch like music?”



“She doesn’t mind it. But she doesn’t like one to get excited over

anything; she thinks I am silly about it. She thinks—I can’t make out.

Once, you know, I said that I liked my own playing better than any

one’s. She has never got over it. Of course, I didn’t mean that I

played well; I only meant—”



“Of course,” said he, wondering why she bothered to explain.



“Music—” said Lucy, as if attempting some generality. She could not

complete it, and looked out absently upon Italy in the wet. The whole

life of the South was disorganized, and the most graceful nation in

Europe had turned into formless lumps of clothes.



The street and the river were dirty yellow, the bridge was dirty grey,

and the hills were dirty purple. Somewhere in their folds were

concealed Miss Lavish and Miss Bartlett, who had chosen this afternoon

to visit the Torre del Gallo.



“What about music?” said Mr. Beebe.



“Poor Charlotte will be sopped,” was Lucy’s reply.



The expedition was typical of Miss Bartlett, who would return cold,

tired, hungry, and angelic, with a ruined skirt, a pulpy Baedeker, and

a tickling cough in her throat. On another day, when the whole world

was singing and the air ran into the mouth, like wine, she would refuse

to stir from the drawing-room, saying that she was an old thing, and no

fit companion for a hearty girl.



“Miss Lavish has led your cousin astray. She hopes to find the true

Italy in the wet I believe.”



“Miss Lavish is so original,” murmured Lucy. This was a stock remark,

the supreme achievement of the Pension Bertolini in the way of

definition. Miss Lavish was so original. Mr. Beebe had his doubts, but

they would have been put down to clerical narrowness. For that, and for

other reasons, he held his peace.



“Is it true,” continued Lucy in awe-struck tone, “that Miss Lavish is

writing a book?”



“They do say so.”



“What is it about?”



“It will be a novel,” replied Mr. Beebe, “dealing with modern Italy.

Let me refer you for an account to Miss Catharine Alan, who uses words

herself more admirably than any one I know.”



“I wish Miss Lavish would tell me herself. We started such friends. But

I don’t think she ought to have run away with Baedeker that morning in

Santa Croce. Charlotte was most annoyed at finding me practically

alone, and so I couldn’t help being a little annoyed with Miss Lavish.”



“The two ladies, at all events, have made it up.”



He was interested in the sudden friendship between women so apparently

dissimilar as Miss Bartlett and Miss Lavish. They were always in each

other’s company, with Lucy a slighted third. Miss Lavish he believed he

understood, but Miss Bartlett might reveal unknown depths of

strangeness, though not perhaps, of meaning. Was Italy deflecting her

from the path of prim chaperon, which he had assigned to her at

Tunbridge Wells? All his life he had loved to study maiden ladies; they

were his specialty, and his profession had provided him with ample

opportunities for the work. Girls like Lucy were charming to look at,

but Mr. Beebe was, from rather profound reasons, somewhat chilly in his

attitude towards the other sex, and preferred to be interested rather

than enthralled.



Lucy, for the third time, said that poor Charlotte would be sopped. The

Arno was rising in flood, washing away the traces of the little carts

upon the foreshore. But in the south-west there had appeared a dull

haze of yellow, which might mean better weather if it did not mean

worse. She opened the window to inspect, and a cold blast entered the

room, drawing a plaintive cry from Miss Catharine Alan, who entered at

the same moment by the door.



“Oh, dear Miss Honeychurch, you will catch a chill! And Mr. Beebe here

besides. Who would suppose this is Italy? There is my sister actually

nursing the hot-water can; no comforts or proper provisions.”



She sidled towards them and sat down, self-conscious as she always was

on entering a room which contained one man, or a man and one woman.



“I could hear your beautiful playing, Miss Honeychurch, though I was in

my room with the door shut. Doors shut; indeed, most necessary. No one

has the least idea of privacy in this country. And one person catches

it from another.”



Lucy answered suitably. Mr. Beebe was not able to tell the ladies of

his adventure at Modena, where the chambermaid burst in upon him in his

bath, exclaiming cheerfully, “Fa niente, sono vecchia.” He contented

himself with saying: “I quite agree with you, Miss Alan. The Italians

are a most unpleasant people. They pry everywhere, they see everything,

and they know what we want before we know it ourselves. We are at their

mercy. They read our thoughts, they foretell our desires. From the

cab-driver down to—to Giotto, they turn us inside out, and I resent it.

Yet in their heart of hearts they are—how superficial! They have no

conception of the intellectual life. How right is Signora Bertolini,

who exclaimed to me the other day: ‘Ho, Mr. Beebe, if you knew what I

suffer over the children’s edjucaishion. _Hi_ won’t ’ave my little

Victorier taught by a hignorant Italian what can’t explain nothink!’”



Miss Alan did not follow, but gathered that she was being mocked in an

agreeable way. Her sister was a little disappointed in Mr. Beebe,

having expected better things from a clergyman whose head was bald and

who wore a pair of russet whiskers. Indeed, who would have supposed

that tolerance, sympathy, and a sense of humour would inhabit that

militant form?



In the midst of her satisfaction she continued to sidle, and at last

the cause was disclosed. From the chair beneath her she extracted a

gun-metal cigarette-case, on which were powdered in turquoise the

initials “E. L.”



“That belongs to Lavish.” said the clergyman. “A good fellow, Lavish,

but I wish she’d start a pipe.”



“Oh, Mr. Beebe,” said Miss Alan, divided between awe and mirth.

“Indeed, though it is dreadful for her to smoke, it is not quite as

dreadful as you suppose. She took to it, practically in despair, after

her life’s work was carried away in a landslip. Surely that makes it

more excusable.”



“What was that?” asked Lucy.



Mr. Beebe sat back complacently, and Miss Alan began as follows: “It

was a novel—and I am afraid, from what I can gather, not a very nice

novel. It is so sad when people who have abilities misuse them, and I

must say they nearly always do. Anyhow, she left it almost finished in

the Grotto of the Calvary at the Capuccini Hotel at Amalfi while she

went for a little ink. She said: ‘Can I have a little ink, please?’ But

you know what Italians are, and meanwhile the Grotto fell roaring on to

the beach, and the saddest thing of all is that she cannot remember

what she has written. The poor thing was very ill after it, and so got

tempted into cigarettes. It is a great secret, but I am glad to say

that she is writing another novel. She told Teresa and Miss Pole the

other day that she had got up all the local colour—this novel is to be

about modern Italy; the other was historical—but that she could not

start till she had an idea. First she tried Perugia for an inspiration,

then she came here—this must on no account get round. And so cheerful

through it all! I cannot help thinking that there is something to

admire in everyone, even if you do not approve of them.”



Miss Alan was always thus being charitable against her better

judgement. A delicate pathos perfumed her disconnected remarks, giving

them unexpected beauty, just as in the decaying autumn woods there

sometimes rise odours reminiscent of spring. She felt she had made

almost too many allowances, and apologized hurriedly for her

toleration.



“All the same, she is a little too—I hardly like to say unwomanly, but

she behaved most strangely when the Emersons arrived.”



Mr. Beebe smiled as Miss Alan plunged into an anecdote which he knew

she would be unable to finish in the presence of a gentleman.



“I don’t know, Miss Honeychurch, if you have noticed that Miss Pole,

the lady who has so much yellow hair, takes lemonade. That old Mr.

Emerson, who puts things very strangely—”



Her jaw dropped. She was silent. Mr. Beebe, whose social resources were

endless, went out to order some tea, and she continued to Lucy in a

hasty whisper:



“Stomach. He warned Miss Pole of her stomach-acidity, he called it—and

he may have meant to be kind. I must say I forgot myself and laughed;

it was so sudden. As Teresa truly said, it was no laughing matter. But

the point is that Miss Lavish was positively _attracted_ by his

mentioning S., and said she liked plain speaking, and meeting different

grades of thought. She thought they were commercial

travellers—‘drummers’ was the word she used—and all through dinner she

tried to prove that England, our great and beloved country, rests on

nothing but commerce. Teresa was very much annoyed, and left the table

before the cheese, saying as she did so: ‘There, Miss Lavish, is one

who can confute you better than I,’ and pointed to that beautiful

picture of Lord Tennyson. Then Miss Lavish said: ‘Tut! The early

Victorians.’ Just imagine! ‘Tut! The early Victorians.’ My sister had

gone, and I felt bound to speak. I said: ‘Miss Lavish, _I_ am an early

Victorian; at least, that is to say, I will hear no breath of censure

against our dear Queen.’ It was horrible speaking. I reminded her how

the Queen had been to Ireland when she did not want to go, and I must

say she was dumbfounded, and made no reply. But, unluckily, Mr. Emerson

overheard this part, and called in his deep voice: ‘Quite so, quite so!

I honour the woman for her Irish visit.’ The woman! I tell things so

badly; but you see what a tangle we were in by this time, all on

account of S. having been mentioned in the first place. But that was

not all. After dinner Miss Lavish actually came up and said: ‘Miss

Alan, I am going into the smoking-room to talk to those two nice men.

Come, too.’ Needless to say, I refused such an unsuitable invitation,

and she had the impertinence to tell me that it would broaden my ideas,

and said that she had four brothers, all University men, except one who

was in the army, who always made a point of talking to commercial

travellers.”



“Let me finish the story,” said Mr. Beebe, who had returned.



“Miss Lavish tried Miss Pole, myself, everyone, and finally said: ‘I

shall go alone.’ She went. At the end of five minutes she returned

unobtrusively with a green baize board, and began playing patience.”



“Whatever happened?” cried Lucy.



“No one knows. No one will ever know. Miss Lavish will never dare to

tell, and Mr. Emerson does not think it worth telling.”



“Mr. Beebe—old Mr. Emerson, is he nice or not nice? I do so want to

know.”



Mr. Beebe laughed and suggested that she should settle the question for

herself.



“No; but it is so difficult. Sometimes he is so silly, and then I do

not mind him. Miss Alan, what do you think? Is he nice?”



The little old lady shook her head, and sighed disapprovingly. Mr.

Beebe, whom the conversation amused, stirred her up by saying:



“I consider that you are bound to class him as nice, Miss Alan, after

that business of the violets.”



“Violets? Oh, dear! Who told you about the violets? How do things get

round? A pension is a bad place for gossips. No, I cannot forget how

they behaved at Mr. Eager’s lecture at Santa Croce. Oh, poor Miss

Honeychurch! It really was too bad. No, I have quite changed. I do

_not_ like the Emersons. They are _not_ nice.”



Mr. Beebe smiled nonchalantly. He had made a gentle effort to introduce

the Emersons into Bertolini society, and the effort had failed. He was

almost the only person who remained friendly to them. Miss Lavish, who

represented intellect, was avowedly hostile, and now the Miss Alans,

who stood for good breeding, were following her. Miss Bartlett,

smarting under an obligation, would scarcely be civil. The case of Lucy

was different. She had given him a hazy account of her adventures in

Santa Croce, and he gathered that the two men had made a curious and

possibly concerted attempt to annex her, to show her the world from

their own strange standpoint, to interest her in their private sorrows

and joys. This was impertinent; he did not wish their cause to be

championed by a young girl: he would rather it should fail. After all,

he knew nothing about them, and pension joys, pension sorrows, are

flimsy things; whereas Lucy would be his parishioner.



Lucy, with one eye upon the weather, finally said that she thought the

Emersons were nice; not that she saw anything of them now. Even their

seats at dinner had been moved.



“But aren’t they always waylaying you to go out with them, dear?” said

the little lady inquisitively.



“Only once. Charlotte didn’t like it, and said something—quite

politely, of course.”



“Most right of her. They don’t understand our ways. They must find

their level.”



Mr. Beebe rather felt that they had gone under. They had given up their

attempt—if it was one—to conquer society, and now the father was almost

as silent as the son. He wondered whether he would not plan a pleasant

day for these folk before they left—some expedition, perhaps, with Lucy

well chaperoned to be nice to them. It was one of Mr. Beebe’s chief

pleasures to provide people with happy memories.



Evening approached while they chatted; the air became brighter; the

colours on the trees and hills were purified, and the Arno lost its

muddy solidity and began to twinkle. There were a few streaks of

bluish-green among the clouds, a few patches of watery light upon the

earth, and then the dripping façade of San Miniato shone brilliantly in

the declining sun.



“Too late to go out,” said Miss Alan in a voice of relief. “All the

galleries are shut.”



“I think I shall go out,” said Lucy. “I want to go round the town in

the circular tram—on the platform by the driver.”



Her two companions looked grave. Mr. Beebe, who felt responsible for

her in the absence of Miss Bartlett, ventured to say:



“I wish we could. Unluckily I have letters. If you do want to go out

alone, won’t you be better on your feet?”



“Italians, dear, you know,” said Miss Alan.



“Perhaps I shall meet someone who reads me through and through!”



But they still looked disapproval, and she so far conceded to Mr. Beebe

as to say that she would only go for a little walk, and keep to the

street frequented by tourists.



“She oughtn’t really to go at all,” said Mr. Beebe, as they watched her

from the window, “and she knows it. I put it down to too much

Beethoven.”









Chapter IV

Fourth Chapter





Mr. Beebe was right. Lucy never knew her desires so clearly as after

music. She had not really appreciated the clergyman’s wit, nor the

suggestive twitterings of Miss Alan. Conversation was tedious; she

wanted something big, and she believed that it would have come to her

on the wind-swept platform of an electric tram. This she might not

attempt. It was unladylike. Why? Why were most big things unladylike?

Charlotte had once explained to her why. It was not that ladies were

inferior to men; it was that they were different. Their mission was to

inspire others to achievement rather than to achieve themselves.

Indirectly, by means of tact and a spotless name, a lady could

accomplish much. But if she rushed into the fray herself she would be

first censured, then despised, and finally ignored. Poems had been

written to illustrate this point.



There is much that is immortal in this medieval lady. The dragons have

gone, and so have the knights, but still she lingers in our midst. She

reigned in many an early Victorian castle, and was Queen of much early

Victorian song. It is sweet to protect her in the intervals of

business, sweet to pay her honour when she has cooked our dinner well.

But alas! the creature grows degenerate. In her heart also there are

springing up strange desires. She too is enamoured of heavy winds, and

vast panoramas, and green expanses of the sea. She has marked the

kingdom of this world, how full it is of wealth, and beauty, and war—a

radiant crust, built around the central fires, spinning towards the

receding heavens. Men, declaring that she inspires them to it, move

joyfully over the surface, having the most delightful meetings with

other men, happy, not because they are masculine, but because they are

alive. Before the show breaks up she would like to drop the august

title of the Eternal Woman, and go there as her transitory self.



Lucy does not stand for the medieval lady, who was rather an ideal to

which she was bidden to lift her eyes when feeling serious. Nor has she

any system of revolt. Here and there a restriction annoyed her

particularly, and she would transgress it, and perhaps be sorry that

she had done so. This afternoon she was peculiarly restive. She would

really like to do something of which her well-wishers disapproved. As

she might not go on the electric tram, she went to Alinari’s shop.



There she bought a photograph of Botticelli’s “Birth of Venus.” Venus,

being a pity, spoilt the picture, otherwise so charming, and Miss

Bartlett had persuaded her to do without it. (A pity in art of course

signified the nude.) Giorgione’s “Tempesta,” the “Idolino,” some of the

Sistine frescoes and the Apoxyomenos, were added to it. She felt a

little calmer then, and bought Fra Angelico’s “Coronation,” Giotto’s

“Ascension of St. John,” some Della Robbia babies, and some Guido Reni

Madonnas. For her taste was catholic, and she extended uncritical

approval to every well-known name.



But though she spent nearly seven lire, the gates of liberty seemed

still unopened. She was conscious of her discontent; it was new to her

to be conscious of it. “The world,” she thought, “is certainly full of

beautiful things, if only I could come across them.” It was not

surprising that Mrs. Honeychurch disapproved of music, declaring that

it always left her daughter peevish, unpractical, and touchy.



“Nothing ever happens to me,” she reflected, as she entered the Piazza

Signoria and looked nonchalantly at its marvels, now fairly familiar to

her. The great square was in shadow; the sunshine had come too late to

strike it. Neptune was already unsubstantial in the twilight, half god,

half ghost, and his fountain plashed dreamily to the men and satyrs who

idled together on its marge. The Loggia showed as the triple entrance

of a cave, wherein many a deity, shadowy, but immortal, looking forth

upon the arrivals and departures of mankind. It was the hour of

unreality—the hour, that is, when unfamiliar things are real. An older

person at such an hour and in such a place might think that sufficient

was happening to him, and rest content. Lucy desired more.



She fixed her eyes wistfully on the tower of the palace, which rose out

of the lower darkness like a pillar of roughened gold. It seemed no

longer a tower, no longer supported by earth, but some unattainable

treasure throbbing in the tranquil sky. Its brightness mesmerized her,

still dancing before her eyes when she bent them to the ground and

started towards home.



Then something did happen.



Two Italians by the Loggia had been bickering about a debt. “Cinque

lire,” they had cried, “cinque lire!” They sparred at each other, and

one of them was hit lightly upon the chest. He frowned; he bent towards

Lucy with a look of interest, as if he had an important message for

her. He opened his lips to deliver it, and a stream of red came out

between them and trickled down his unshaven chin.



That was all. A crowd rose out of the dusk. It hid this extraordinary

man from her, and bore him away to the fountain. Mr. George Emerson

happened to be a few paces away, looking at her across the spot where

the man had been. How very odd! Across something. Even as she caught

sight of him he grew dim; the palace itself grew dim, swayed above her,

fell on to her softly, slowly, noiselessly, and the sky fell with it.



She thought: “Oh, what have I done?”



“Oh, what have I done?” she murmured, and opened her eyes.



George Emerson still looked at her, but not across anything. She had

complained of dullness, and lo! one man was stabbed, and another held

her in his arms.



They were sitting on some steps in the Uffizi Arcade. He must have

carried her. He rose when she spoke, and began to dust his knees. She

repeated:



“Oh, what have I done?”



“You fainted.”



“I—I am very sorry.”



“How are you now?”



“Perfectly well—absolutely well.” And she began to nod and smile.



“Then let us come home. There’s no point in our stopping.”



He held out his hand to pull her up. She pretended not to see it. The

cries from the fountain—they had never ceased—rang emptily. The whole

world seemed pale and void of its original meaning.



“How very kind you have been! I might have hurt myself falling. But now

I am well. I can go alone, thank you.”



His hand was still extended.



“Oh, my photographs!” she exclaimed suddenly.



“What photographs?”



“I bought some photographs at Alinari’s. I must have dropped them out

there in the square.” She looked at him cautiously. “Would you add to

your kindness by fetching them?”



He added to his kindness. As soon as he had turned his back, Lucy arose

with the running of a maniac and stole down the arcade towards the

Arno.



“Miss Honeychurch!”



She stopped with her hand on her heart.



“You sit still; you aren’t fit to go home alone.”



“Yes, I am, thank you so very much.”



“No, you aren’t. You’d go openly if you were.”



“But I had rather—”



“Then I don’t fetch your photographs.”



“I had rather be alone.”



He said imperiously: “The man is dead—the man is probably dead; sit

down till you are rested.” She was bewildered, and obeyed him. “And

don’t move till I come back.”



In the distance she saw creatures with black hoods, such as appear in

dreams. The palace tower had lost the reflection of the declining day,

and joined itself to earth. How should she talk to Mr. Emerson when he

returned from the shadowy square? Again the thought occurred to her,

“Oh, what have I done?”—the thought that she, as well as the dying man,

had crossed some spiritual boundary.



He returned, and she talked of the murder. Oddly enough, it was an easy

topic. She spoke of the Italian character; she became almost garrulous

over the incident that had made her faint five minutes before. Being

strong physically, she soon overcame the horror of blood. She rose

without his assistance, and though wings seemed to flutter inside her,

she walked firmly enough towards the Arno. There a cabman signalled to

them; they refused him.



“And the murderer tried to kiss him, you say—how very odd Italians

are!—and gave himself up to the police! Mr. Beebe was saying that

Italians know everything, but I think they are rather childish. When my

cousin and I were at the Pitti yesterday—What was that?”



He had thrown something into the stream.



“What did you throw in?”



“Things I didn’t want,” he said crossly.



“Mr. Emerson!”



“Well?”



“Where are the photographs?”



He was silent.



“I believe it was my photographs that you threw away.”



“I didn’t know what to do with them,” he cried, and his voice was that

of an anxious boy. Her heart warmed towards him for the first time.

“They were covered with blood. There! I’m glad I’ve told you; and all

the time we were making conversation I was wondering what to do with

them.” He pointed down-stream. “They’ve gone.” The river swirled under

the bridge, “I did mind them so, and one is so foolish, it seemed

better that they should go out to the sea—I don’t know; I may just mean

that they frightened me.” Then the boy verged into a man. “For

something tremendous has happened; I must face it without getting

muddled. It isn’t exactly that a man has died.”



Something warned Lucy that she must stop him.



“It has happened,” he repeated, “and I mean to find out what it is.”



“Mr. Emerson—”



He turned towards her frowning, as if she had disturbed him in some

abstract quest.



“I want to ask you something before we go in.”



They were close to their pension. She stopped and leant her elbows

against the parapet of the embankment. He did likewise. There is at

times a magic in identity of position; it is one of the things that

have suggested to us eternal comradeship. She moved her elbows before

saying:



“I have behaved ridiculously.”



He was following his own thoughts.



“I was never so much ashamed of myself in my life; I cannot think what

came over me.”



“I nearly fainted myself,” he said; but she felt that her attitude

repelled him.



“Well, I owe you a thousand apologies.”



“Oh, all right.”



“And—this is the real point—you know how silly people are

gossiping—ladies especially, I am afraid—you understand what I mean?”



“I’m afraid I don’t.”



“I mean, would you not mention it to any one, my foolish behaviour?”



“Your behaviour? Oh, yes, all right—all right.”



“Thank you so much. And would you—”



She could not carry her request any further. The river was rushing

below them, almost black in the advancing night. He had thrown her

photographs into it, and then he had told her the reason. It struck her

that it was hopeless to look for chivalry in such a man. He would do

her no harm by idle gossip; he was trustworthy, intelligent, and even

kind; he might even have a high opinion of her. But he lacked chivalry;

his thoughts, like his behaviour, would not be modified by awe. It was

useless to say to him, “And would you—” and hope that he would complete

the sentence for himself, averting his eyes from her nakedness like the

knight in that beautiful picture. She had been in his arms, and he

remembered it, just as he remembered the blood on the photographs that

she had bought in Alinari’s shop. It was not exactly that a man had

died; something had happened to the living: they had come to a

situation where character tells, and where childhood enters upon the

branching paths of Youth.



“Well, thank you so much,” she repeated, “How quickly these accidents

do happen, and then one returns to the old life!”



“I don’t.”



Anxiety moved her to question him.



His answer was puzzling: “I shall probably want to live.”



“But why, Mr. Emerson? What do you mean?”



“I shall want to live, I say.”



Leaning her elbows on the parapet, she contemplated the River Arno,

whose roar was suggesting some unexpected melody to her ears.









Chapter V

Possibilities of a Pleasant Outing





It was a family saying that “you never knew which way Charlotte

Bartlett would turn.” She was perfectly pleasant and sensible over

Lucy’s adventure, found the abridged account of it quite adequate, and

paid suitable tribute to the courtesy of Mr. George Emerson. She and

Miss Lavish had had an adventure also. They had been stopped at the

Dazio coming back, and the young officials there, who seemed impudent

and _désœuvré_, had tried to search their reticules for provisions. It

might have been most unpleasant. Fortunately Miss Lavish was a match

for any one.



For good or for evil, Lucy was left to face her problem alone. None of

her friends had seen her, either in the Piazza or, later on, by the

embankment. Mr. Beebe, indeed, noticing her startled eyes at

dinner-time, had again passed to himself the remark of “Too much

Beethoven.” But he only supposed that she was ready for an adventure,

not that she had encountered it. This solitude oppressed her; she was

accustomed to have her thoughts confirmed by others or, at all events,

contradicted; it was too dreadful not to know whether she was thinking

right or wrong.



At breakfast next morning she took decisive action. There were two

plans between which she had to choose. Mr. Beebe was walking up to the

Torre del Gallo with the Emersons and some American ladies. Would Miss

Bartlett and Miss Honeychurch join the party? Charlotte declined for

herself; she had been there in the rain the previous afternoon. But she

thought it an admirable idea for Lucy, who hated shopping, changing

money, fetching letters, and other irksome duties—all of which Miss

Bartlett must accomplish this morning and could easily accomplish

alone.



“No, Charlotte!” cried the girl, with real warmth. “It’s very kind of

Mr. Beebe, but I am certainly coming with you. I had much rather.”



“Very well, dear,” said Miss Bartlett, with a faint flush of pleasure

that called forth a deep flush of shame on the cheeks of Lucy. How

abominably she behaved to Charlotte, now as always! But now she should

alter. All morning she would be really nice to her.



She slipped her arm into her cousin’s, and they started off along the

Lung’ Arno. The river was a lion that morning in strength, voice, and

colour. Miss Bartlett insisted on leaning over the parapet to look at

it. She then made her usual remark, which was “How I do wish Freddy and

your mother could see this, too!”



Lucy fidgeted; it was tiresome of Charlotte to have stopped exactly

where she did.



“Look, Lucia! Oh, you are watching for the Torre del Gallo party. I

feared you would repent you of your choice.”



Serious as the choice had been, Lucy did not repent. Yesterday had been

a muddle—queer and odd, the kind of thing one could not write down

easily on paper—but she had a feeling that Charlotte and her shopping

were preferable to George Emerson and the summit of the Torre del

Gallo. Since she could not unravel the tangle, she must take care not

to re-enter it. She could protest sincerely against Miss Bartlett’s

insinuations.



But though she had avoided the chief actor, the scenery unfortunately

remained. Charlotte, with the complacency of fate, led her from the

river to the Piazza Signoria. She could not have believed that stones,

a Loggia, a fountain, a palace tower, would have such significance. For

a moment she understood the nature of ghosts.



The exact site of the murder was occupied, not by a ghost, but by Miss

Lavish, who had the morning newspaper in her hand. She hailed them

briskly. The dreadful catastrophe of the previous day had given her an

idea which she thought would work up into a book.



“Oh, let me congratulate you!” said Miss Bartlett. “After your despair

of yesterday! What a fortunate thing!”



“Aha! Miss Honeychurch, come you here I am in luck. Now, you are to

tell me absolutely everything that you saw from the beginning.” Lucy

poked at the ground with her parasol.



“But perhaps you would rather not?”



“I’m sorry—if you could manage without it, I think I would rather not.”



The elder ladies exchanged glances, not of disapproval; it is suitable

that a girl should feel deeply.



“It is I who am sorry,” said Miss Lavish. “We literary hacks are

shameless creatures. I believe there’s no secret of the human heart

into which we wouldn’t pry.”



She marched cheerfully to the fountain and back, and did a few

calculations in realism. Then she said that she had been in the Piazza

since eight o’clock collecting material. A good deal of it was

unsuitable, but of course one always had to adapt. The two men had

quarrelled over a five-franc note. For the five-franc note she should

substitute a young lady, which would raise the tone of the tragedy, and

at the same time furnish an excellent plot.



“What is the heroine’s name?” asked Miss Bartlett.



“Leonora,” said Miss Lavish; her own name was Eleanor.



“I do hope she’s nice.”



That desideratum would not be omitted.



“And what is the plot?”



Love, murder, abduction, revenge, was the plot. But it all came while

the fountain plashed to the satyrs in the morning sun.



“I hope you will excuse me for boring on like this,” Miss Lavish

concluded. “It is so tempting to talk to really sympathetic people. Of

course, this is the barest outline. There will be a deal of local

colouring, descriptions of Florence and the neighbourhood, and I shall

also introduce some humorous characters. And let me give you all fair

warning: I intend to be unmerciful to the British tourist.”



“Oh, you wicked woman,” cried Miss Bartlett. “I am sure you are

thinking of the Emersons.”



Miss Lavish gave a Machiavellian smile.



“I confess that in Italy my sympathies are not with my own countrymen.

It is the neglected Italians who attract me, and whose lives I am going

to paint so far as I can. For I repeat and I insist, and I have always

held most strongly, that a tragedy such as yesterday’s is not the less

tragic because it happened in humble life.”



There was a fitting silence when Miss Lavish had concluded. Then the

cousins wished success to her labours, and walked slowly away across

the square.



“She is my idea of a really clever woman,” said Miss Bartlett. “That

last remark struck me as so particularly true. It should be a most

pathetic novel.”



Lucy assented. At present her great aim was not to get put into it. Her

perceptions this morning were curiously keen, and she believed that

Miss Lavish had her on trial for an _ingenué_.



“She is emancipated, but only in the very best sense of the word,”

continued Miss Bartlett slowly. “None but the superficial would be

shocked at her. We had a long talk yesterday. She believes in justice

and truth and human interest. She told me also that she has a high

opinion of the destiny of woman—Mr. Eager! Why, how nice! What a

pleasant surprise!”



“Ah, not for me,” said the chaplain blandly, “for I have been watching

you and Miss Honeychurch for quite a little time.”



“We were chatting to Miss Lavish.”



His brow contracted.



“So I saw. Were you indeed? Andate via! sono occupato!” The last remark

was made to a vender of panoramic photographs who was approaching with

a courteous smile. “I am about to venture a suggestion. Would you and

Miss Honeychurch be disposed to join me in a drive some day this week—a

drive in the hills? We might go up by Fiesole and back by Settignano.

There is a point on that road where we could get down and have an

hour’s ramble on the hillside. The view thence of Florence is most

beautiful—far better than the hackneyed view of Fiesole. It is the view

that Alessio Baldovinetti is fond of introducing into his pictures.

That man had a decided feeling for landscape. Decidedly. But who looks

at it to-day? Ah, the world is too much for us.”



Miss Bartlett had not heard of Alessio Baldovinetti, but she knew that

Mr. Eager was no commonplace chaplain. He was a member of the

residential colony who had made Florence their home. He knew the people

who never walked about with Baedekers, who had learnt to take a siesta

after lunch, who took drives the pension tourists had never heard of,

and saw by private influence galleries which were closed to them.

Living in delicate seclusion, some in furnished flats, others in

Renaissance villas on Fiesole’s slope, they read, wrote, studied, and

exchanged ideas, thus attaining to that intimate knowledge, or rather

perception, of Florence which is denied to all who carry in their

pockets the coupons of Cook.



Therefore an invitation from the chaplain was something to be proud of.

Between the two sections of his flock he was often the only link, and

it was his avowed custom to select those of his migratory sheep who

seemed worthy, and give them a few hours in the pastures of the

permanent. Tea at a Renaissance villa? Nothing had been said about it

yet. But if it did come to that—how Lucy would enjoy it!



A few days ago and Lucy would have felt the same. But the joys of life

were grouping themselves anew. A drive in the hills with Mr. Eager and

Miss Bartlett—even if culminating in a residential tea-party—was no

longer the greatest of them. She echoed the raptures of Charlotte

somewhat faintly. Only when she heard that Mr. Beebe was also coming

did her thanks become more sincere.



“So we shall be a _partie carrée_,” said the chaplain. “In these days

of toil and tumult one has great needs of the country and its message

of purity. Andate via! andate presto, presto! Ah, the town! Beautiful

as it is, it is the town.”



They assented.



“This very square—so I am told—witnessed yesterday the most sordid of

tragedies. To one who loves the Florence of Dante and Savonarola there

is something portentous in such desecration—portentous and

humiliating.”



“Humiliating indeed,” said Miss Bartlett. “Miss Honeychurch happened to

be passing through as it happened. She can hardly bear to speak of it.”

She glanced at Lucy proudly.



“And how came we to have you here?” asked the chaplain paternally.



Miss Bartlett’s recent liberalism oozed away at the question. “Do not

blame her, please, Mr. Eager. The fault is mine: I left her

unchaperoned.”



“So you were here alone, Miss Honeychurch?” His voice suggested

sympathetic reproof but at the same time indicated that a few harrowing

details would not be unacceptable. His dark, handsome face drooped

mournfully towards her to catch her reply.



“Practically.”



“One of our pension acquaintances kindly brought her home,” said Miss

Bartlett, adroitly concealing the sex of the preserver.



“For her also it must have been a terrible experience. I trust that

neither of you was at all—that it was not in your immediate proximity?”



Of the many things Lucy was noticing to-day, not the least remarkable

was this: the ghoulish fashion in which respectable people will nibble

after blood. George Emerson had kept the subject strangely pure.



“He died by the fountain, I believe,” was her reply.



“And you and your friend—”



“Were over at the Loggia.”



“That must have saved you much. You have not, of course, seen the

disgraceful illustrations which the gutter Press—This man is a public

nuisance; he knows that I am a resident perfectly well, and yet he goes

on worrying me to buy his vulgar views.”



Surely the vendor of photographs was in league with Lucy—in the eternal

league of Italy with youth. He had suddenly extended his book before

Miss Bartlett and Mr. Eager, binding their hands together by a long

glossy ribbon of churches, pictures, and views.



“This is too much!” cried the chaplain, striking petulantly at one of

Fra Angelico’s angels. She tore. A shrill cry rose from the vendor. The

book it seemed, was more valuable than one would have supposed.



“Willingly would I purchase—” began Miss Bartlett.



“Ignore him,” said Mr. Eager sharply, and they all walked rapidly away

from the square.



But an Italian can never be ignored, least of all when he has a

grievance. His mysterious persecution of Mr. Eager became relentless;

the air rang with his threats and lamentations. He appealed to Lucy;

would not she intercede? He was poor—he sheltered a family—the tax on

bread. He waited, he gibbered, he was recompensed, he was dissatisfied,

he did not leave them until he had swept their minds clean of all

thoughts whether pleasant or unpleasant.



Shopping was the topic that now ensued. Under the chaplain’s guidance

they selected many hideous presents and mementoes—florid little

picture-frames that seemed fashioned in gilded pastry; other little

frames, more severe, that stood on little easels, and were carven out

of oak; a blotting book of vellum; a Dante of the same material; cheap

mosaic brooches, which the maids, next Christmas, would never tell from

real; pins, pots, heraldic saucers, brown art-photographs; Eros and

Psyche in alabaster; St. Peter to match—all of which would have cost

less in London.



This successful morning left no pleasant impressions on Lucy. She had

been a little frightened, both by Miss Lavish and by Mr. Eager, she

knew not why. And as they frightened her, she had, strangely enough,

ceased to respect them. She doubted that Miss Lavish was a great

artist. She doubted that Mr. Eager was as full of spirituality and

culture as she had been led to suppose. They were tried by some new

test, and they were found wanting. As for Charlotte—as for Charlotte

she was exactly the same. It might be possible to be nice to her; it

was impossible to love her.



“The son of a labourer; I happen to know it for a fact. A mechanic of

some sort himself when he was young; then he took to writing for the

Socialistic Press. I came across him at Brixton.”



They were talking about the Emersons.



“How wonderfully people rise in these days!” sighed Miss Bartlett,

fingering a model of the leaning Tower of Pisa.



“Generally,” replied Mr. Eager, “one has only sympathy for their

success. The desire for education and for social advance—in these

things there is something not wholly vile. There are some working men

whom one would be very willing to see out here in Florence—little as

they would make of it.”



“Is he a journalist now?” Miss Bartlett asked.



“He is not; he made an advantageous marriage.”



He uttered this remark with a voice full of meaning, and ended with a

sigh.



“Oh, so he has a wife.”



“Dead, Miss Bartlett, dead. I wonder—yes I wonder how he has the

effrontery to look me in the face, to dare to claim acquaintance with

me. He was in my London parish long ago. The other day in Santa Croce,

when he was with Miss Honeychurch, I snubbed him. Let him beware that

he does not get more than a snub.”



“What?” cried Lucy, flushing.



“Exposure!” hissed Mr. Eager.



He tried to change the subject; but in scoring a dramatic point he had

interested his audience more than he had intended. Miss Bartlett was

full of very natural curiosity. Lucy, though she wished never to see

the Emersons again, was not disposed to condemn them on a single word.



“Do you mean,” she asked, “that he is an irreligious man? We know that

already.”



“Lucy, dear—” said Miss Bartlett, gently reproving her cousin’s

penetration.



“I should be astonished if you knew all. The boy—an innocent child at

the time—I will exclude. God knows what his education and his inherited

qualities may have made him.”



“Perhaps,” said Miss Bartlett, “it is something that we had better not

hear.”



“To speak plainly,” said Mr. Eager, “it is. I will say no more.” For

the first time Lucy’s rebellious thoughts swept out in words—for the

first time in her life.



“You have said very little.”



“It was my intention to say very little,” was his frigid reply.



He gazed indignantly at the girl, who met him with equal indignation.

She turned towards him from the shop counter; her breast heaved

quickly. He observed her brow, and the sudden strength of her lips. It

was intolerable that she should disbelieve him.



“Murder, if you want to know,” he cried angrily. “That man murdered his

wife!”



“How?” she retorted.



“To all intents and purposes he murdered her. That day in Santa

Croce—did they say anything against me?”



“Not a word, Mr. Eager—not a single word.”



“Oh, I thought they had been libelling me to you. But I suppose it is

only their personal charms that makes you defend them.”



“I’m not defending them,” said Lucy, losing her courage, and relapsing

into the old chaotic methods. “They’re nothing to me.”



“How could you think she was defending them?” said Miss Bartlett, much

discomfited by the unpleasant scene. The shopman was possibly

listening.



“She will find it difficult. For that man has murdered his wife in the

sight of God.”



The addition of God was striking. But the chaplain was really trying to

qualify a rash remark. A silence followed which might have been

impressive, but was merely awkward. Then Miss Bartlett hastily

purchased the Leaning Tower, and led the way into the street.



“I must be going,” said he, shutting his eyes and taking out his watch.



Miss Bartlett thanked him for his kindness, and spoke with enthusiasm

of the approaching drive.



“Drive? Oh, is our drive to come off?”



Lucy was recalled to her manners, and after a little exertion the

complacency of Mr. Eager was restored.



“Bother the drive!” exclaimed the girl, as soon as he had departed. “It

is just the drive we had arranged with Mr. Beebe without any fuss at

all. Why should he invite us in that absurd manner? We might as well

invite him. We are each paying for ourselves.”



Miss Bartlett, who had intended to lament over the Emersons, was

launched by this remark into unexpected thoughts.



“If that is so, dear—if the drive we and Mr. Beebe are going with Mr.

Eager is really the same as the one we are going with Mr. Beebe, then I

foresee a sad kettle of fish.”



“How?”



“Because Mr. Beebe has asked Eleanor Lavish to come, too.”



“That will mean another carriage.”



“Far worse. Mr. Eager does not like Eleanor. She knows it herself. The

truth must be told; she is too unconventional for him.”



They were now in the newspaper-room at the English bank. Lucy stood by

the central table, heedless of Punch and the Graphic, trying to answer,

or at all events to formulate the questions rioting in her brain. The

well-known world had broken up, and there emerged Florence, a magic

city where people thought and did the most extraordinary things.

Murder, accusations of murder, a lady clinging to one man and being

rude to another—were these the daily incidents of her streets? Was

there more in her frank beauty than met the eye—the power, perhaps, to

evoke passions, good and bad, and to bring them speedily to a

fulfillment?



Happy Charlotte, who, though greatly troubled over things that did not

matter, seemed oblivious to things that did; who could conjecture with

admirable delicacy “where things might lead to,” but apparently lost

sight of the goal as she approached it. Now she was crouching in the

corner trying to extract a circular note from a kind of linen nose-bag

which hung in chaste concealment round her neck. She had been told that

this was the only safe way to carry money in Italy; it must only be

broached within the walls of the English bank. As she groped she

murmured: “Whether it is Mr. Beebe who forgot to tell Mr. Eager, or Mr.

Eager who forgot when he told us, or whether they have decided to leave

Eleanor out altogether—which they could scarcely do—but in any case we

must be prepared. It is you they really want; I am only asked for

appearances. You shall go with the two gentlemen, and I and Eleanor

will follow behind. A one-horse carriage would do for us. Yet how

difficult it is!”



“It is indeed,” replied the girl, with a gravity that sounded

sympathetic.



“What do you think about it?” asked Miss Bartlett, flushed from the

struggle, and buttoning up her dress.



“I don’t know what I think, nor what I want.”



“Oh, dear, Lucy! I do hope Florence isn’t boring you. Speak the word,

and, as you know, I would take you to the ends of the earth to-morrow.”



“Thank you, Charlotte,” said Lucy, and pondered over the offer.



There were letters for her at the bureau—one from her brother, full of

athletics and biology; one from her mother, delightful as only her

mother’s letters could be. She had read in it of the crocuses which had

been bought for yellow and were coming up puce, of the new

parlour-maid, who had watered the ferns with essence of lemonade, of

the semi-detached cottages which were ruining Summer Street, and

breaking the heart of Sir Harry Otway. She recalled the free, pleasant

life of her home, where she was allowed to do everything, and where

nothing ever happened to her. The road up through the pine-woods, the

clean drawing-room, the view over the Sussex Weald—all hung before her

bright and distinct, but pathetic as the pictures in a gallery to

which, after much experience, a traveller returns.



“And the news?” asked Miss Bartlett.



“Mrs. Vyse and her son have gone to Rome,” said Lucy, giving the news

that interested her least. “Do you know the Vyses?”



“Oh, not that way back. We can never have too much of the dear Piazza

Signoria.”



“They’re nice people, the Vyses. So clever—my idea of what’s really

clever. Don’t you long to be in Rome?”



“I die for it!”



The Piazza Signoria is too stony to be brilliant. It has no grass, no

flowers, no frescoes, no glittering walls of marble or comforting

patches of ruddy brick. By an odd chance—unless we believe in a

presiding genius of places—the statues that relieve its severity

suggest, not the innocence of childhood, nor the glorious bewilderment

of youth, but the conscious achievements of maturity. Perseus and

Judith, Hercules and Thusnelda, they have done or suffered something,

and though they are immortal, immortality has come to them after

experience, not before. Here, not only in the solitude of Nature, might

a hero meet a goddess, or a heroine a god.



“Charlotte!” cried the girl suddenly. “Here’s an idea. What if we

popped off to Rome to-morrow—straight to the Vyses’ hotel? For I do

know what I want. I’m sick of Florence. No, you said you’d go to the

ends of the earth! Do! Do!”



Miss Bartlett, with equal vivacity, replied:



“Oh, you droll person! Pray, what would become of your drive in the

hills?”



They passed together through the gaunt beauty of the square, laughing

over the unpractical suggestion.









Chapter VI

The Reverend Arthur Beebe, the Reverend Cuthbert Eager, Mr. Emerson,

Mr. George Emerson, Miss Eleanor Lavish, Miss Charlotte Bartlett, and

Miss Lucy Honeychurch Drive Out in Carriages to See a View; Italians

Drive Them.





It was Phaethon who drove them to Fiesole that memorable day, a youth

all irresponsibility and fire, recklessly urging his master’s horses up

the stony hill. Mr. Beebe recognized him at once. Neither the Ages of

Faith nor the Age of Doubt had touched him; he was Phaethon in Tuscany

driving a cab. And it was Persephone whom he asked leave to pick up on

the way, saying that she was his sister—Persephone, tall and slender

and pale, returning with the Spring to her mother’s cottage, and still

shading her eyes from the unaccustomed light. To her Mr. Eager

objected, saying that here was the thin edge of the wedge, and one must

guard against imposition. But the ladies interceded, and when it had

been made clear that it was a very great favour, the goddess was

allowed to mount beside the god.



Phaethon at once slipped the left rein over her head, thus enabling

himself to drive with his arm round her waist. She did not mind. Mr.

Eager, who sat with his back to the horses, saw nothing of the

indecorous proceeding, and continued his conversation with Lucy. The

other two occupants of the carriage were old Mr. Emerson and Miss

Lavish. For a dreadful thing had happened: Mr. Beebe, without

consulting Mr. Eager, had doubled the size of the party. And though

Miss Bartlett and Miss Lavish had planned all the morning how the

people were to sit, at the critical moment when the carriages came

round they lost their heads, and Miss Lavish got in with Lucy, while

Miss Bartlett, with George Emerson and Mr. Beebe, followed on behind.



It was hard on the poor chaplain to have his _partie carrée_ thus

transformed. Tea at a Renaissance villa, if he had ever meditated it,

was now impossible. Lucy and Miss Bartlett had a certain style about

them, and Mr. Beebe, though unreliable, was a man of parts. But a

shoddy lady writer and a journalist who had murdered his wife in the

sight of God—they should enter no villa at his introduction.



Lucy, elegantly dressed in white, sat erect and nervous amid these

explosive ingredients, attentive to Mr. Eager, repressive towards Miss

Lavish, watchful of old Mr. Emerson, hitherto fortunately asleep,

thanks to a heavy lunch and the drowsy atmosphere of Spring. She looked

on the expedition as the work of Fate. But for it she would have

avoided George Emerson successfully. In an open manner he had shown

that he wished to continue their intimacy. She had refused, not because

she disliked him, but because she did not know what had happened, and

suspected that he did know. And this frightened her.



For the real event—whatever it was—had taken place, not in the Loggia,

but by the river. To behave wildly at the sight of death is pardonable.

But to discuss it afterwards, to pass from discussion into silence, and

through silence into sympathy, that is an error, not of a startled

emotion, but of the whole fabric. There was really something

blameworthy (she thought) in their joint contemplation of the shadowy

stream, in the common impulse which had turned them to the house

without the passing of a look or word. This sense of wickedness had

been slight at first. She had nearly joined the party to the Torre del

Gallo. But each time that she avoided George it became more imperative

that she should avoid him again. And now celestial irony, working

through her cousin and two clergymen, did not suffer her to leave

Florence till she had made this expedition with him through the hills.



Meanwhile Mr. Eager held her in civil converse; their little tiff was

over.



“So, Miss Honeychurch, you are travelling? As a student of art?”



“Oh, dear me, no—oh, no!”



“Perhaps as a student of human nature,” interposed Miss Lavish, “like

myself?”



“Oh, no. I am here as a tourist.”



“Oh, indeed,” said Mr. Eager. “Are you indeed? If you will not think me

rude, we residents sometimes pity you poor tourists not a little—handed

about like a parcel of goods from Venice to Florence, from Florence to

Rome, living herded together in pensions or hotels, quite unconscious

of anything that is outside Baedeker, their one anxiety to get ‘done’

or ‘through’ and go on somewhere else. The result is, they mix up

towns, rivers, palaces in one inextricable whirl. You know the American

girl in Punch who says: ‘Say, poppa, what did we see at Rome?’ And the

father replies: ‘Why, guess Rome was the place where we saw the yaller

dog.’ There’s travelling for you. Ha! ha! ha!”



“I quite agree,” said Miss Lavish, who had several times tried to

interrupt his mordant wit. “The narrowness and superficiality of the

Anglo-Saxon tourist is nothing less than a menace.”



“Quite so. Now, the English colony at Florence, Miss Honeychurch—and it

is of considerable size, though, of course, not all equally—a few are

here for trade, for example. But the greater part are students. Lady

Helen Laverstock is at present busy over Fra Angelico. I mention her

name because we are passing her villa on the left. No, you can only see

it if you stand—no, do not stand; you will fall. She is very proud of

that thick hedge. Inside, perfect seclusion. One might have gone back

six hundred years. Some critics believe that her garden was the scene

of The Decameron, which lends it an additional interest, does it not?”



“It does indeed!” cried Miss Lavish. “Tell me, where do they place the

scene of that wonderful seventh day?”



But Mr. Eager proceeded to tell Miss Honeychurch that on the right

lived Mr. Someone Something, an American of the best type—so rare!—and

that the Somebody Elses were farther down the hill. “Doubtless you know

her monographs in the series of ‘Mediæval Byways’? He is working at

Gemistus Pletho. Sometimes as I take tea in their beautiful grounds I

hear, over the wall, the electric tram squealing up the new road with

its loads of hot, dusty, unintelligent tourists who are going to ‘do’

Fiesole in an hour in order that they may say they have been there, and

I think—think—I think how little they think what lies so near them.”



During this speech the two figures on the box were sporting with each

other disgracefully. Lucy had a spasm of envy. Granted that they wished

to misbehave, it was pleasant for them to be able to do so. They were

probably the only people enjoying the expedition. The carriage swept

with agonizing jolts up through the Piazza of Fiesole and into the

Settignano road.



“Piano! piano!” said Mr. Eager, elegantly waving his hand over his

head.



“Va bene, signore, va bene, va bene,” crooned the driver, and whipped

his horses up again.



Now Mr. Eager and Miss Lavish began to talk against each other on the

subject of Alessio Baldovinetti. Was he a cause of the Renaissance, or

was he one of its manifestations? The other carriage was left behind.

As the pace increased to a gallop the large, slumbering form of Mr.

Emerson was thrown against the chaplain with the regularity of a

machine.



“Piano! piano!” said he, with a martyred look at Lucy.



An extra lurch made him turn angrily in his seat. Phaethon, who for

some time had been endeavouring to kiss Persephone, had just succeeded.



A little scene ensued, which, as Miss Bartlett said afterwards, was

most unpleasant. The horses were stopped, the lovers were ordered to

disentangle themselves, the boy was to lose his _pourboire_, the girl

was immediately to get down.



“She is my sister,” said he, turning round on them with piteous eyes.



Mr. Eager took the trouble to tell him that he was a liar.



Phaethon hung down his head, not at the matter of the accusation, but

at its manner. At this point Mr. Emerson, whom the shock of stopping

had awoke, declared that the lovers must on no account be separated,

and patted them on the back to signify his approval. And Miss Lavish,

though unwilling to ally him, felt bound to support the cause of

Bohemianism.



“Most certainly I would let them be,” she cried. “But I dare say I

shall receive scant support. I have always flown in the face of the

conventions all my life. This is what _I_ call an adventure.”



“We must not submit,” said Mr. Eager. “I knew he was trying it on. He

is treating us as if we were a party of Cook’s tourists.”



“Surely no!” said Miss Lavish, her ardour visibly decreasing.



The other carriage had drawn up behind, and sensible Mr. Beebe called

out that after this warning the couple would be sure to behave

themselves properly.



“Leave them alone,” Mr. Emerson begged the chaplain, of whom he stood

in no awe. “Do we find happiness so often that we should turn it off

the box when it happens to sit there? To be driven by lovers—A king

might envy us, and if we part them it’s more like sacrilege than

anything I know.”



Here the voice of Miss Bartlett was heard saying that a crowd had begun

to collect.



Mr. Eager, who suffered from an over-fluent tongue rather than a

resolute will, was determined to make himself heard. He addressed the

driver again. Italian in the mouth of Italians is a deep-voiced stream,

with unexpected cataracts and boulders to preserve it from monotony. In

Mr. Eager’s mouth it resembled nothing so much as an acid whistling

fountain which played ever higher and higher, and quicker and quicker,

and more and more shrilly, till abruptly it was turned off with a

click.



“Signorina!” said the man to Lucy, when the display had ceased. Why

should he appeal to Lucy?



“Signorina!” echoed Persephone in her glorious contralto. She pointed

at the other carriage. Why?



For a moment the two girls looked at each other. Then Persephone got

down from the box.



“Victory at last!” said Mr. Eager, smiting his hands together as the

carriages started again.



“It is not victory,” said Mr. Emerson. “It is defeat. You have parted

two people who were happy.”



Mr. Eager shut his eyes. He was obliged to sit next to Mr. Emerson, but

he would not speak to him. The old man was refreshed by sleep, and took

up the matter warmly. He commanded Lucy to agree with him; he shouted

for support to his son.



“We have tried to buy what cannot be bought with money. He has

bargained to drive us, and he is doing it. We have no rights over his

soul.”



Miss Lavish frowned. It is hard when a person you have classed as

typically British speaks out of his character.



“He was not driving us well,” she said. “He jolted us.”



“That I deny. It was as restful as sleeping. Aha! he is jolting us now.

Can you wonder? He would like to throw us out, and most certainly he is

justified. And if I were superstitious I’d be frightened of the girl,

too. It doesn’t do to injure young people. Have you ever heard of

Lorenzo de Medici?”



Miss Lavish bristled.



“Most certainly I have. Do you refer to Lorenzo il Magnifico, or to

Lorenzo, Duke of Urbino, or to Lorenzo surnamed Lorenzino on account of

his diminutive stature?”



“The Lord knows. Possibly he does know, for I refer to Lorenzo the

poet. He wrote a line—so I heard yesterday—which runs like this: ‘Don’t

go fighting against the Spring.’”



Mr. Eager could not resist the opportunity for erudition.



“Non fate guerra al Maggio,” he murmured. “‘War not with the May’ would

render a correct meaning.”



“The point is, we have warred with it. Look.” He pointed to the Val

d’Arno, which was visible far below them, through the budding trees.

“Fifty miles of Spring, and we’ve come up to admire them. Do you

suppose there’s any difference between Spring in nature and Spring in

man? But there we go, praising the one and condemning the other as

improper, ashamed that the same laws work eternally through both.”



No one encouraged him to talk. Presently Mr. Eager gave a signal for

the carriages to stop and marshalled the party for their ramble on the

hill. A hollow like a great amphitheatre, full of terraced steps and

misty olives, now lay between them and the heights of Fiesole, and the

road, still following its curve, was about to sweep on to a promontory

which stood out in the plain. It was this promontory, uncultivated,

wet, covered with bushes and occasional trees, which had caught the

fancy of Alessio Baldovinetti nearly five hundred years before. He had

ascended it, that diligent and rather obscure master, possibly with an

eye to business, possibly for the joy of ascending. Standing there, he

had seen that view of the Val d’Arno and distant Florence, which he

afterwards had introduced not very effectively into his work. But where

exactly had he stood? That was the question which Mr. Eager hoped to

solve now. And Miss Lavish, whose nature was attracted by anything

problematical, had become equally enthusiastic.



But it is not easy to carry the pictures of Alessio Baldovinetti in

your head, even if you have remembered to look at them before starting.

And the haze in the valley increased the difficulty of the quest.



The party sprang about from tuft to tuft of grass, their anxiety to

keep together being only equalled by their desire to go different

directions. Finally they split into groups. Lucy clung to Miss Bartlett

and Miss Lavish; the Emersons returned to hold laborious converse with

the drivers; while the two clergymen, who were expected to have topics

in common, were left to each other.



The two elder ladies soon threw off the mask. In the audible whisper

that was now so familiar to Lucy they began to discuss, not Alessio

Baldovinetti, but the drive. Miss Bartlett had asked Mr. George Emerson

what his profession was, and he had answered “the railway.” She was

very sorry that she had asked him. She had no idea that it would be

such a dreadful answer, or she would not have asked him. Mr. Beebe had

turned the conversation so cleverly, and she hoped that the young man

was not very much hurt at her asking him.



“The railway!” gasped Miss Lavish. “Oh, but I shall die! Of course it

was the railway!” She could not control her mirth. “He is the image of

a porter—on, on the South-Eastern.”



“Eleanor, be quiet,” plucking at her vivacious companion. “Hush!

They’ll hear—the Emersons—”



“I can’t stop. Let me go my wicked way. A porter—”



“Eleanor!”



“I’m sure it’s all right,” put in Lucy. “The Emersons won’t hear, and

they wouldn’t mind if they did.”



Miss Lavish did not seem pleased at this.



“Miss Honeychurch listening!” she said rather crossly. “Pouf! Wouf! You

naughty girl! Go away!”



“Oh, Lucy, you ought to be with Mr. Eager, I’m sure.”



“I can’t find them now, and I don’t want to either.”



“Mr. Eager will be offended. It is your party.”



“Please, I’d rather stop here with you.”



“No, I agree,” said Miss Lavish. “It’s like a school feast; the boys

have got separated from the girls. Miss Lucy, you are to go. We wish to

converse on high topics unsuited for your ear.”



The girl was stubborn. As her time at Florence drew to its close she

was only at ease amongst those to whom she felt indifferent. Such a one

was Miss Lavish, and such for the moment was Charlotte. She wished she

had not called attention to herself; they were both annoyed at her

remark and seemed determined to get rid of her.



“How tired one gets,” said Miss Bartlett. “Oh, I do wish Freddy and

your mother could be here.”



Unselfishness with Miss Bartlett had entirely usurped the functions of

enthusiasm. Lucy did not look at the view either. She would not enjoy

anything till she was safe at Rome.



“Then sit you down,” said Miss Lavish. “Observe my foresight.”



With many a smile she produced two of those mackintosh squares that

protect the frame of the tourist from damp grass or cold marble steps.

She sat on one; who was to sit on the other?



“Lucy; without a moment’s doubt, Lucy. The ground will do for me.

Really I have not had rheumatism for years. If I do feel it coming on I

shall stand. Imagine your mother’s feelings if I let you sit in the wet

in your white linen.” She sat down heavily where the ground looked

particularly moist. “Here we are, all settled delightfully. Even if my

dress is thinner it will not show so much, being brown. Sit down, dear;

you are too unselfish; you don’t assert yourself enough.” She cleared

her throat. “Now don’t be alarmed; this isn’t a cold. It’s the tiniest

cough, and I have had it three days. It’s nothing to do with sitting

here at all.”



There was only one way of treating the situation. At the end of five

minutes Lucy departed in search of Mr. Beebe and Mr. Eager, vanquished

by the mackintosh square.



She addressed herself to the drivers, who were sprawling in the

carriages, perfuming the cushions with cigars. The miscreant, a bony

young man scorched black by the sun, rose to greet her with the

courtesy of a host and the assurance of a relative.



“Dove?” said Lucy, after much anxious thought.



His face lit up. Of course he knew where. Not so far either. His arm

swept three-fourths of the horizon. He should just think he did know

where. He pressed his finger-tips to his forehead and then pushed them

towards her, as if oozing with visible extract of knowledge.



More seemed necessary. What was the Italian for “clergyman”?



“Dove buoni uomini?” said she at last.



Good? Scarcely the adjective for those noble beings! He showed her his

cigar.



“Uno—piu—piccolo,” was her next remark, implying “Has the cigar been

given to you by Mr. Beebe, the smaller of the two good men?”



She was correct as usual. He tied the horse to a tree, kicked it to

make it stay quiet, dusted the carriage, arranged his hair, remoulded

his hat, encouraged his moustache, and in rather less than a quarter of

a minute was ready to conduct her. Italians are born knowing the way.

It would seem that the whole earth lay before them, not as a map, but

as a chess-board, whereon they continually behold the changing pieces

as well as the squares. Any one can find places, but the finding of

people is a gift from God.



He only stopped once, to pick her some great blue violets. She thanked

him with real pleasure. In the company of this common man the world was

beautiful and direct. For the first time she felt the influence of

Spring. His arm swept the horizon gracefully; violets, like other

things, existed in great profusion there; “would she like to see them?”



“Ma buoni uomini.”



He bowed. Certainly. Good men first, violets afterwards. They proceeded

briskly through the undergrowth, which became thicker and thicker. They

were nearing the edge of the promontory, and the view was stealing

round them, but the brown network of the bushes shattered it into

countless pieces. He was occupied in his cigar, and in holding back the

pliant boughs. She was rejoicing in her escape from dullness. Not a

step, not a twig, was unimportant to her.



“What is that?”



There was a voice in the wood, in the distance behind them. The voice

of Mr. Eager? He shrugged his shoulders. An Italian’s ignorance is

sometimes more remarkable than his knowledge. She could not make him

understand that perhaps they had missed the clergymen. The view was

forming at last; she could discern the river, the golden plain, other

hills.



“Eccolo!” he exclaimed.



At the same moment the ground gave way, and with a cry she fell out of

the wood. Light and beauty enveloped her. She had fallen on to a little

open terrace, which was covered with violets from end to end.



“Courage!” cried her companion, now standing some six feet above.

“Courage and love.”



She did not answer. From her feet the ground sloped sharply into view,

and violets ran down in rivulets and streams and cataracts, irrigating

the hillside with blue, eddying round the tree stems collecting into

pools in the hollows, covering the grass with spots of azure foam. But

never again were they in such profusion; this terrace was the

well-head, the primal source whence beauty gushed out to water the

earth.



Standing at its brink, like a swimmer who prepares, was the good man.

But he was not the good man that she had expected, and he was alone.



George had turned at the sound of her arrival. For a moment he

contemplated her, as one who had fallen out of heaven. He saw radiant

joy in her face, he saw the flowers beat against her dress in blue

waves. The bushes above them closed. He stepped quickly forward and

kissed her.



Before she could speak, almost before she could feel, a voice called,

“Lucy! Lucy! Lucy!” The silence of life had been broken by Miss

Bartlett who stood brown against the view.









Chapter VII

They Return





Some complicated game had been playing up and down the hillside all the

afternoon. What it was and exactly how the players had sided, Lucy was

slow to discover. Mr. Eager had met them with a questioning eye.

Charlotte had repulsed him with much small talk. Mr. Emerson, seeking

his son, was told whereabouts to find him. Mr. Beebe, who wore the

heated aspect of a neutral, was bidden to collect the factions for the

return home. There was a general sense of groping and bewilderment. Pan

had been amongst them—not the great god Pan, who has been buried these

two thousand years, but the little god Pan, who presides over social

contretemps and unsuccessful picnics. Mr. Beebe had lost everyone, and

had consumed in solitude the tea-basket which he had brought up as a

pleasant surprise. Miss Lavish had lost Miss Bartlett. Lucy had lost

Mr. Eager. Mr. Emerson had lost George. Miss Bartlett had lost a

mackintosh square. Phaethon had lost the game.



That last fact was undeniable. He climbed on to the box shivering, with

his collar up, prophesying the swift approach of bad weather. “Let us

go immediately,” he told them. “The signorino will walk.”



“All the way? He will be hours,” said Mr. Beebe.



“Apparently. I told him it was unwise.” He would look no one in the

face; perhaps defeat was particularly mortifying for him. He alone had

played skilfully, using the whole of his instinct, while the others had

used scraps of their intelligence. He alone had divined what things

were, and what he wished them to be. He alone had interpreted the

message that Lucy had received five days before from the lips of a

dying man. Persephone, who spends half her life in the grave—she could

interpret it also. Not so these English. They gain knowledge slowly,

and perhaps too late.



The thoughts of a cab-driver, however just, seldom affect the lives of

his employers. He was the most competent of Miss Bartlett’s opponents,

but infinitely the least dangerous. Once back in the town, he and his

insight and his knowledge would trouble English ladies no more. Of

course, it was most unpleasant; she had seen his black head in the

bushes; he might make a tavern story out of it. But after all, what

have we to do with taverns? Real menace belongs to the drawing-room. It

was of drawing-room people that Miss Bartlett thought as she journeyed

downwards towards the fading sun. Lucy sat beside her; Mr. Eager sat

opposite, trying to catch her eye; he was vaguely suspicious. They

spoke of Alessio Baldovinetti.



Rain and darkness came on together. The two ladies huddled together

under an inadequate parasol. There was a lightning flash, and Miss

Lavish who was nervous, screamed from the carriage in front. At the

next flash, Lucy screamed also. Mr. Eager addressed her professionally:



“Courage, Miss Honeychurch, courage and faith. If I might say so, there

is something almost blasphemous in this horror of the elements. Are we

seriously to suppose that all these clouds, all this immense electrical

display, is simply called into existence to extinguish you or me?”



“No—of course—”



“Even from the scientific standpoint the chances against our being

struck are enormous. The steel knives, the only articles which might

attract the current, are in the other carriage. And, in any case, we

are infinitely safer than if we were walking. Courage—courage and

faith.”



Under the rug, Lucy felt the kindly pressure of her cousin’s hand. At

times our need for a sympathetic gesture is so great that we care not

what exactly it signifies or how much we may have to pay for it

afterwards. Miss Bartlett, by this timely exercise of her muscles,

gained more than she would have got in hours of preaching or cross

examination.



She renewed it when the two carriages stopped, half into Florence.



“Mr. Eager!” called Mr. Beebe. “We want your assistance. Will you

interpret for us?”



“George!” cried Mr. Emerson. “Ask your driver which way George went.

The boy may lose his way. He may be killed.”



“Go, Mr. Eager,” said Miss Bartlett, “don’t ask our driver; our driver

is no help. Go and support poor Mr. Beebe—, he is nearly demented.”



“He may be killed!” cried the old man. “He may be killed!”



“Typical behaviour,” said the chaplain, as he quitted the carriage. “In

the presence of reality that kind of person invariably breaks down.”



“What does he know?” whispered Lucy as soon as they were alone.

“Charlotte, how much does Mr. Eager know?”



“Nothing, dearest; he knows nothing. But—” she pointed at the

driver—“_he_ knows everything. Dearest, had we better? Shall I?” She

took out her purse. “It is dreadful to be entangled with low-class

people. He saw it all.” Tapping Phaethon’s back with her guide-book,

she said, “Silenzio!” and offered him a franc.



“Va bene,” he replied, and accepted it. As well this ending to his day

as any. But Lucy, a mortal maid, was disappointed in him.



There was an explosion up the road. The storm had struck the overhead

wire of the tramline, and one of the great supports had fallen. If they

had not stopped perhaps they might have been hurt. They chose to regard

it as a miraculous preservation, and the floods of love and sincerity,

which fructify every hour of life, burst forth in tumult. They

descended from the carriages; they embraced each other. It was as

joyful to be forgiven past unworthinesses as to forgive them. For a

moment they realized vast possibilities of good.



The older people recovered quickly. In the very height of their emotion

they knew it to be unmanly or unladylike. Miss Lavish calculated that,

even if they had continued, they would not have been caught in the

accident. Mr. Eager mumbled a temperate prayer. But the drivers,

through miles of dark squalid road, poured out their souls to the

dryads and the saints, and Lucy poured out hers to her cousin.



“Charlotte, dear Charlotte, kiss me. Kiss me again. Only you can

understand me. You warned me to be careful. And I—I thought I was

developing.”



“Do not cry, dearest. Take your time.”



“I have been obstinate and silly—worse than you know, far worse. Once

by the river—Oh, but he isn’t killed—he wouldn’t be killed, would he?”



The thought disturbed her repentance. As a matter of fact, the storm

was worst along the road; but she had been near danger, and so she

thought it must be near to everyone.



“I trust not. One would always pray against that.”



“He is really—I think he was taken by surprise, just as I was before.

But this time I’m not to blame; I want you to believe that. I simply

slipped into those violets. No, I want to be really truthful. I am a

little to blame. I had silly thoughts. The sky, you know, was gold, and

the ground all blue, and for a moment he looked like someone in a

book.”



“In a book?”



“Heroes—gods—the nonsense of schoolgirls.”



“And then?”



“But, Charlotte, you know what happened then.”



Miss Bartlett was silent. Indeed, she had little more to learn. With a

certain amount of insight she drew her young cousin affectionately to

her. All the way back Lucy’s body was shaken by deep sighs, which

nothing could repress.



“I want to be truthful,” she whispered. “It is so hard to be absolutely

truthful.”



“Don’t be troubled, dearest. Wait till you are calmer. We will talk it

over before bed-time in my room.”



So they re-entered the city with hands clasped. It was a shock to the

girl to find how far emotion had ebbed in others. The storm had ceased,

and Mr. Emerson was easier about his son. Mr. Beebe had regained good

humour, and Mr. Eager was already snubbing Miss Lavish. Charlotte alone

she was sure of—Charlotte, whose exterior concealed so much insight and

love.



The luxury of self-exposure kept her almost happy through the long

evening. She thought not so much of what had happened as of how she

should describe it. All her sensations, her spasms of courage, her

moments of unreasonable joy, her mysterious discontent, should be

carefully laid before her cousin. And together in divine confidence

they would disentangle and interpret them all.



“At last,” thought she, “I shall understand myself. I shan’t again be

troubled by things that come out of nothing, and mean I don’t know

what.”



Miss Alan asked her to play. She refused vehemently. Music seemed to

her the employment of a child. She sat close to her cousin, who, with

commendable patience, was listening to a long story about lost luggage.

When it was over she capped it by a story of her own. Lucy became

rather hysterical with the delay. In vain she tried to check, or at all

events to accelerate, the tale. It was not till a late hour that Miss

Bartlett had recovered her luggage and could say in her usual tone of

gentle reproach:



“Well, dear, I at all events am ready for Bedfordshire. Come into my

room, and I will give a good brush to your hair.”



With some solemnity the door was shut, and a cane chair placed for the

girl. Then Miss Bartlett said “So what is to be done?”



She was unprepared for the question. It had not occurred to her that

she would have to do anything. A detailed exhibition of her emotions

was all that she had counted upon.



“What is to be done? A point, dearest, which you alone can settle.”



The rain was streaming down the black windows, and the great room felt

damp and chilly. One candle burnt trembling on the chest of drawers

close to Miss Bartlett’s toque, which cast monstrous and fantastic

shadows on the bolted door. A tram roared by in the dark, and Lucy felt

unaccountably sad, though she had long since dried her eyes. She lifted

them to the ceiling, where the griffins and bassoons were colourless

and vague, the very ghosts of joy.



“It has been raining for nearly four hours,” she said at last.



Miss Bartlett ignored the remark.



“How do you propose to silence him?”



“The driver?”



“My dear girl, no; Mr. George Emerson.”



Lucy began to pace up and down the room.



“I don’t understand,” she said at last.



She understood very well, but she no longer wished to be absolutely

truthful.



“How are you going to stop him talking about it?”



“I have a feeling that talk is a thing he will never do.”



“I, too, intend to judge him charitably. But unfortunately I have met

the type before. They seldom keep their exploits to themselves.”



“Exploits?” cried Lucy, wincing under the horrible plural.



“My poor dear, did you suppose that this was his first? Come here and

listen to me. I am only gathering it from his own remarks. Do you

remember that day at lunch when he argued with Miss Alan that liking

one person is an extra reason for liking another?”



“Yes,” said Lucy, whom at the time the argument had pleased.



“Well, I am no prude. There is no need to call him a wicked young man,

but obviously he is thoroughly unrefined. Let us put it down to his

deplorable antecedents and education, if you wish. But we are no

farther on with our question. What do you propose to do?”



An idea rushed across Lucy’s brain, which, had she thought of it sooner

and made it part of her, might have proved victorious.



“I propose to speak to him,” said she.



Miss Bartlett uttered a cry of genuine alarm.



“You see, Charlotte, your kindness—I shall never forget it. But—as you

said—it is my affair. Mine and his.”



“And you are going to _implore_ him, to _beg_ him to keep silence?”



“Certainly not. There would be no difficulty. Whatever you ask him he

answers, yes or no; then it is over. I have been frightened of him. But

now I am not one little bit.”



“But we fear him for you, dear. You are so young and inexperienced, you

have lived among such nice people, that you cannot realize what men can

be—how they can take a brutal pleasure in insulting a woman whom her

sex does not protect and rally round. This afternoon, for example, if I

had not arrived, what would have happened?”



“I can’t think,” said Lucy gravely.



Something in her voice made Miss Bartlett repeat her question, intoning

it more vigorously.



“What would have happened if I hadn’t arrived?”



“I can’t think,” said Lucy again.



“When he insulted you, how would you have replied?”



“I hadn’t time to think. You came.”



“Yes, but won’t you tell me now what you would have done?”



“I should have—” She checked herself, and broke the sentence off. She

went up to the dripping window and strained her eyes into the darkness.

She could not think what she would have done.



“Come away from the window, dear,” said Miss Bartlett. “You will be

seen from the road.”



Lucy obeyed. She was in her cousin’s power. She could not modulate out

the key of self-abasement in which she had started. Neither of them

referred again to her suggestion that she should speak to George and

settle the matter, whatever it was, with him.



Miss Bartlett became plaintive.



“Oh, for a real man! We are only two women, you and I. Mr. Beebe is

hopeless. There is Mr. Eager, but you do not trust him. Oh, for your

brother! He is young, but I know that his sister’s insult would rouse

in him a very lion. Thank God, chivalry is not yet dead. There are

still left some men who can reverence woman.”



As she spoke, she pulled off her rings, of which she wore several, and

ranged them upon the pin cushion. Then she blew into her gloves and

said:



“It will be a push to catch the morning train, but we must try.”



“What train?”



“The train to Rome.” She looked at her gloves critically.



The girl received the announcement as easily as it had been given.



“When does the train to Rome go?”



“At eight.”



“Signora Bertolini would be upset.”



“We must face that,” said Miss Bartlett, not liking to say that she had

given notice already.



“She will make us pay for a whole week’s pension.”



“I expect she will. However, we shall be much more comfortable at the

Vyses’ hotel. Isn’t afternoon tea given there for nothing?”



“Yes, but they pay extra for wine.” After this remark she remained

motionless and silent. To her tired eyes Charlotte throbbed and swelled

like a ghostly figure in a dream.



They began to sort their clothes for packing, for there was no time to

lose, if they were to catch the train to Rome. Lucy, when admonished,

began to move to and fro between the rooms, more conscious of the

discomforts of packing by candlelight than of a subtler ill. Charlotte,

who was practical without ability, knelt by the side of an empty trunk,

vainly endeavouring to pave it with books of varying thickness and

size. She gave two or three sighs, for the stooping posture hurt her

back, and, for all her diplomacy, she felt that she was growing old.

The girl heard her as she entered the room, and was seized with one of

those emotional impulses to which she could never attribute a cause.

She only felt that the candle would burn better, the packing go easier,

the world be happier, if she could give and receive some human love.

The impulse had come before to-day, but never so strongly. She knelt

down by her cousin’s side and took her in her arms.



Miss Bartlett returned the embrace with tenderness and warmth. But she

was not a stupid woman, and she knew perfectly well that Lucy did not

love her, but needed her to love. For it was in ominous tones that she

said, after a long pause:



“Dearest Lucy, how will you ever forgive me?”



Lucy was on her guard at once, knowing by bitter experience what

forgiving Miss Bartlett meant. Her emotion relaxed, she modified her

embrace a little, and she said:



“Charlotte dear, what do you mean? As if I have anything to forgive!”



“You have a great deal, and I have a very great deal to forgive myself,

too. I know well how much I vex you at every turn.”



“But no—”



Miss Bartlett assumed her favourite role, that of the prematurely aged

martyr.



“Ah, but yes! I feel that our tour together is hardly the success I had

hoped. I might have known it would not do. You want someone younger and

stronger and more in sympathy with you. I am too uninteresting and

old-fashioned—only fit to pack and unpack your things.”



“Please—”



“My only consolation was that you found people more to your taste, and

were often able to leave me at home. I had my own poor ideas of what a

lady ought to do, but I hope I did not inflict them on you more than

was necessary. You had your own way about these rooms, at all events.”



“You mustn’t say these things,” said Lucy softly.



She still clung to the hope that she and Charlotte loved each other,

heart and soul. They continued to pack in silence.



“I have been a failure,” said Miss Bartlett, as she struggled with the

straps of Lucy’s trunk instead of strapping her own. “Failed to make

you happy; failed in my duty to your mother. She has been so generous

to me; I shall never face her again after this disaster.”



“But mother will understand. It is not your fault, this trouble, and it

isn’t a disaster either.”



“It is my fault, it is a disaster. She will never forgive me, and

rightly. For instance, what right had I to make friends with Miss

Lavish?”



“Every right.”



“When I was here for your sake? If I have vexed you it is equally true

that I have neglected you. Your mother will see this as clearly as I

do, when you tell her.”



Lucy, from a cowardly wish to improve the situation, said:



“Why need mother hear of it?”



“But you tell her everything?”



“I suppose I do generally.”



“I dare not break your confidence. There is something sacred in it.

Unless you feel that it is a thing you could not tell her.”



The girl would not be degraded to this.



“Naturally I should have told her. But in case she should blame you in

any way, I promise I will not, I am very willing not to. I will never

speak of it either to her or to any one.”



Her promise brought the long-drawn interview to a sudden close. Miss

Bartlett pecked her smartly on both cheeks, wished her good-night, and

sent her to her own room.



For a moment the original trouble was in the background. George would

seem to have behaved like a cad throughout; perhaps that was the view

which one would take eventually. At present she neither acquitted nor

condemned him; she did not pass judgement. At the moment when she was

about to judge him her cousin’s voice had intervened, and, ever since,

it was Miss Bartlett who had dominated; Miss Bartlett who, even now,

could be heard sighing into a crack in the partition wall; Miss

Bartlett, who had really been neither pliable nor humble nor

inconsistent. She had worked like a great artist; for a time—indeed,

for years—she had been meaningless, but at the end there was presented

to the girl the complete picture of a cheerless, loveless world in

which the young rush to destruction until they learn better—a

shamefaced world of precautions and barriers which may avert evil, but

which do not seem to bring good, if we may judge from those who have

used them most.



Lucy was suffering from the most grievous wrong which this world has

yet discovered: diplomatic advantage had been taken of her sincerity,

of her craving for sympathy and love. Such a wrong is not easily

forgotten. Never again did she expose herself without due consideration

and precaution against rebuff. And such a wrong may react disastrously

upon the soul.



The door-bell rang, and she started to the shutters. Before she reached

them she hesitated, turned, and blew out the candle. Thus it was that,

though she saw someone standing in the wet below, he, though he looked

up, did not see her.



To reach his room he had to go by hers. She was still dressed. It

struck her that she might slip into the passage and just say that she

would be gone before he was up, and that their extraordinary

intercourse was over.



Whether she would have dared to do this was never proved. At the

critical moment Miss Bartlett opened her own door, and her voice said:



“I wish one word with you in the drawing-room, Mr. Emerson, please.”



Soon their footsteps returned, and Miss Bartlett said: “Good-night, Mr.

Emerson.”



His heavy, tired breathing was the only reply; the chaperon had done

her work.



Lucy cried aloud: “It isn’t true. It can’t all be true. I want not to

be muddled. I want to grow older quickly.”



Miss Bartlett tapped on the wall.



“Go to bed at once, dear. You need all the rest you can get.”



In the morning they left for Rome.









PART TWO









Chapter VIII

Medieval





The drawing-room curtains at Windy Corner had been pulled to meet, for

the carpet was new and deserved protection from the August sun. They

were heavy curtains, reaching almost to the ground, and the light that

filtered through them was subdued and varied. A poet—none was

present—might have quoted, “Life like a dome of many coloured glass,”

or might have compared the curtains to sluice-gates, lowered against

the intolerable tides of heaven. Without was poured a sea of radiance;

within, the glory, though visible, was tempered to the capacities of

man.



Two pleasant people sat in the room. One—a boy of nineteen—was studying

a small manual of anatomy, and peering occasionally at a bone which lay

upon the piano. From time to time he bounced in his chair and puffed

and groaned, for the day was hot and the print small, and the human

frame fearfully made; and his mother, who was writing a letter, did

continually read out to him what she had written. And continually did

she rise from her seat and part the curtains so that a rivulet of light

fell across the carpet, and make the remark that they were still there.



“Where aren’t they?” said the boy, who was Freddy, Lucy’s brother. “I

tell you I’m getting fairly sick.”



“For goodness’ sake go out of my drawing-room, then?” cried Mrs.

Honeychurch, who hoped to cure her children of slang by taking it

literally.



Freddy did not move or reply.



“I think things are coming to a head,” she observed, rather wanting her

son’s opinion on the situation if she could obtain it without undue

supplication.



“Time they did.”



“I am glad that Cecil is asking her this once more.”



“It’s his third go, isn’t it?”



“Freddy I do call the way you talk unkind.”



“I didn’t mean to be unkind.” Then he added: “But I do think Lucy might

have got this off her chest in Italy. I don’t know how girls manage

things, but she can’t have said ‘No’ properly before, or she wouldn’t

have to say it again now. Over the whole thing—I can’t explain—I do

feel so uncomfortable.”



“Do you indeed, dear? How interesting!”



“I feel—never mind.”



He returned to his work.



“Just listen to what I have written to Mrs. Vyse. I said: ‘Dear Mrs.

Vyse.’”



“Yes, mother, you told me. A jolly good letter.”



“I said: ‘Dear Mrs. Vyse, Cecil has just asked my permission about it,

and I should be delighted, if Lucy wishes it. But—’” She stopped

reading, “I was rather amused at Cecil asking my permission at all. He

has always gone in for unconventionality, and parents nowhere, and so

forth. When it comes to the point, he can’t get on without me.”



“Nor me.”



“You?”



Freddy nodded.



“What do you mean?”



“He asked me for my permission also.”



She exclaimed: “How very odd of him!”



“Why so?” asked the son and heir. “Why shouldn’t my permission be

asked?”



“What do you know about Lucy or girls or anything? What ever did you

say?”



“I said to Cecil, ‘Take her or leave her; it’s no business of mine!’”



“What a helpful answer!” But her own answer, though more normal in its

wording, had been to the same effect.



“The bother is this,” began Freddy.



Then he took up his work again, too shy to say what the bother was.

Mrs. Honeychurch went back to the window.



“Freddy, you must come. There they still are!”



“I don’t see you ought to go peeping like that.”



“Peeping like that! Can’t I look out of my own window?”



But she returned to the writing-table, observing, as she passed her

son, “Still page 322?” Freddy snorted, and turned over two leaves. For

a brief space they were silent. Close by, beyond the curtains, the

gentle murmur of a long conversation had never ceased.



“The bother is this: I have put my foot in it with Cecil most awfully.”

He gave a nervous gulp. “Not content with ‘permission’, which I did

give—that is to say, I said, ‘I don’t mind’—well, not content with

that, he wanted to know whether I wasn’t off my head with joy. He

practically put it like this: Wasn’t it a splendid thing for Lucy and

for Windy Corner generally if he married her? And he would have an

answer—he said it would strengthen his hand.”



“I hope you gave a careful answer, dear.”



“I answered ‘No’” said the boy, grinding his teeth. “There! Fly into a

stew! I can’t help it—had to say it. I had to say no. He ought never to

have asked me.”



“Ridiculous child!” cried his mother. “You think you’re so holy and

truthful, but really it’s only abominable conceit. Do you suppose that

a man like Cecil would take the slightest notice of anything you say? I

hope he boxed your ears. How dare you say no?”



“Oh, do keep quiet, mother! I had to say no when I couldn’t say yes. I

tried to laugh as if I didn’t mean what I said, and, as Cecil laughed

too, and went away, it may be all right. But I feel my foot’s in it.

Oh, do keep quiet, though, and let a man do some work.”



“No,” said Mrs. Honeychurch, with the air of one who has considered the

subject, “I shall not keep quiet. You know all that has passed between

them in Rome; you know why he is down here, and yet you deliberately

insult him, and try to turn him out of my house.”



“Not a bit!” he pleaded. “I only let out I didn’t like him. I don’t

hate him, but I don’t like him. What I mind is that he’ll tell Lucy.”



He glanced at the curtains dismally.



“Well, _I_ like him,” said Mrs. Honeychurch. “I know his mother; he’s

good, he’s clever, he’s rich, he’s well connected—Oh, you needn’t kick

the piano! He’s well connected—I’ll say it again if you like: he’s well

connected.” She paused, as if rehearsing her eulogy, but her face

remained dissatisfied. She added: “And he has beautiful manners.”



“I liked him till just now. I suppose it’s having him spoiling Lucy’s

first week at home; and it’s also something that Mr. Beebe said, not

knowing.”



“Mr. Beebe?” said his mother, trying to conceal her interest. “I don’t

see how Mr. Beebe comes in.”



“You know Mr. Beebe’s funny way, when you never quite know what he

means. He said: ‘Mr. Vyse is an ideal bachelor.’ I was very cute, I

asked him what he meant. He said ‘Oh, he’s like me—better detached.’ I

couldn’t make him say any more, but it set me thinking. Since Cecil has

come after Lucy he hasn’t been so pleasant, at least—I can’t explain.”



“You never can, dear. But I can. You are jealous of Cecil because he

may stop Lucy knitting you silk ties.”



The explanation seemed plausible, and Freddy tried to accept it. But at

the back of his brain there lurked a dim mistrust. Cecil praised one

too much for being athletic. Was that it? Cecil made one talk in one’s

own way. This tired one. Was that it? And Cecil was the kind of fellow

who would never wear another fellow’s cap. Unaware of his own

profundity, Freddy checked himself. He must be jealous, or he would not

dislike a man for such foolish reasons.



“Will this do?” called his mother. “‘Dear Mrs. Vyse,—Cecil has just

asked my permission about it, and I should be delighted if Lucy wishes

it.’ Then I put in at the top, ‘and I have told Lucy so.’ I must write

the letter out again—‘and I have told Lucy so. But Lucy seems very

uncertain, and in these days young people must decide for themselves.’

I said that because I didn’t want Mrs. Vyse to think us old-fashioned.

She goes in for lectures and improving her mind, and all the time a

thick layer of flue under the beds, and the maid’s dirty thumb-marks

where you turn on the electric light. She keeps that flat abominably—”



“Suppose Lucy marries Cecil, would she live in a flat, or in the

country?”



“Don’t interrupt so foolishly. Where was I? Oh yes—‘Young people must

decide for themselves. I know that Lucy likes your son, because she

tells me everything, and she wrote to me from Rome when he asked her

first.’ No, I’ll cross that last bit out—it looks patronizing. I’ll

stop at ‘because she tells me everything.’ Or shall I cross that out,

too?”



“Cross it out, too,” said Freddy.



Mrs. Honeychurch left it in.



“Then the whole thing runs: ‘Dear Mrs. Vyse.—Cecil has just asked my

permission about it, and I should be delighted if Lucy wishes it, and I

have told Lucy so. But Lucy seems very uncertain, and in these days

young people must decide for themselves. I know that Lucy likes your

son, because she tells me everything. But I do not know—’”



“Look out!” cried Freddy.



The curtains parted.



Cecil’s first movement was one of irritation. He couldn’t bear the

Honeychurch habit of sitting in the dark to save the furniture.

Instinctively he gave the curtains a twitch, and sent them swinging

down their poles. Light entered. There was revealed a terrace, such as

is owned by many villas with trees each side of it, and on it a little

rustic seat, and two flower-beds. But it was transfigured by the view

beyond, for Windy Corner was built on the range that overlooks the

Sussex Weald. Lucy, who was in the little seat, seemed on the edge of a

green magic carpet which hovered in the air above the tremulous world.



Cecil entered.



Appearing thus late in the story, Cecil must be at once described. He

was medieval. Like a Gothic statue. Tall and refined, with shoulders

that seemed braced square by an effort of the will, and a head that was

tilted a little higher than the usual level of vision, he resembled

those fastidious saints who guard the portals of a French cathedral.

Well educated, well endowed, and not deficient physically, he remained

in the grip of a certain devil whom the modern world knows as

self-consciousness, and whom the medieval, with dimmer vision,

worshipped as asceticism. A Gothic statue implies celibacy, just as a

Greek statue implies fruition, and perhaps this was what Mr. Beebe

meant. And Freddy, who ignored history and art, perhaps meant the same

when he failed to imagine Cecil wearing another fellow’s cap.



Mrs. Honeychurch left her letter on the writing table and moved towards

her young acquaintance.



“Oh, Cecil!” she exclaimed—“oh, Cecil, do tell me!”



“I promessi sposi,” said he.



They stared at him anxiously.



“She has accepted me,” he said, and the sound of the thing in English

made him flush and smile with pleasure, and look more human.



“I am so glad,” said Mrs. Honeychurch, while Freddy proffered a hand

that was yellow with chemicals. They wished that they also knew

Italian, for our phrases of approval and of amazement are so connected

with little occasions that we fear to use them on great ones. We are

obliged to become vaguely poetic, or to take refuge in Scriptural

reminiscences.



“Welcome as one of the family!” said Mrs. Honeychurch, waving her hand

at the furniture. “This is indeed a joyous day! I feel sure that you

will make our dear Lucy happy.”



“I hope so,” replied the young man, shifting his eyes to the ceiling.



“We mothers—” simpered Mrs. Honeychurch, and then realized that she was

affected, sentimental, bombastic—all the things she hated most. Why

could she not be Freddy, who stood stiff in the middle of the room;

looking very cross and almost handsome?



“I say, Lucy!” called Cecil, for conversation seemed to flag.



Lucy rose from the seat. She moved across the lawn and smiled in at

them, just as if she was going to ask them to play tennis. Then she saw

her brother’s face. Her lips parted, and she took him in her arms. He

said, “Steady on!”



“Not a kiss for me?” asked her mother.



Lucy kissed her also.



“Would you take them into the garden and tell Mrs. Honeychurch all

about it?” Cecil suggested. “And I’d stop here and tell my mother.”



“We go with Lucy?” said Freddy, as if taking orders.



“Yes, you go with Lucy.”



They passed into the sunlight. Cecil watched them cross the terrace,

and descend out of sight by the steps. They would descend—he knew their

ways—past the shrubbery, and past the tennis-lawn and the dahlia-bed,

until they reached the kitchen garden, and there, in the presence of

the potatoes and the peas, the great event would be discussed.



Smiling indulgently, he lit a cigarette, and rehearsed the events that

had led to such a happy conclusion.



He had known Lucy for several years, but only as a commonplace girl who

happened to be musical. He could still remember his depression that

afternoon at Rome, when she and her terrible cousin fell on him out of

the blue, and demanded to be taken to St. Peter’s. That day she had

seemed a typical tourist—shrill, crude, and gaunt with travel. But

Italy worked some marvel in her. It gave her light, and—which he held

more precious—it gave her shadow. Soon he detected in her a wonderful

reticence. She was like a woman of Leonardo da Vinci’s, whom we love

not so much for herself as for the things that she will not tell us.

The things are assuredly not of this life; no woman of Leonardo’s could

have anything so vulgar as a “story.” She did develop most wonderfully

day by day.



So it happened that from patronizing civility he had slowly passed if

not to passion, at least to a profound uneasiness. Already at Rome he

had hinted to her that they might be suitable for each other. It had

touched him greatly that she had not broken away at the suggestion. Her

refusal had been clear and gentle; after it—as the horrid phrase

went—she had been exactly the same to him as before. Three months

later, on the margin of Italy, among the flower-clad Alps, he had asked

her again in bald, traditional language. She reminded him of a Leonardo

more than ever; her sunburnt features were shadowed by fantastic rock;

at his words she had turned and stood between him and the light with

immeasurable plains behind her. He walked home with her unashamed,

feeling not at all like a rejected suitor. The things that really

mattered were unshaken.



So now he had asked her once more, and, clear and gentle as ever, she

had accepted him, giving no coy reasons for her delay, but simply

saying that she loved him and would do her best to make him happy. His

mother, too, would be pleased; she had counselled the step; he must

write her a long account.



Glancing at his hand, in case any of Freddy’s chemicals had come off on

it, he moved to the writing table. There he saw “Dear Mrs. Vyse,”

followed by many erasures. He recoiled without reading any more, and

after a little hesitation sat down elsewhere, and pencilled a note on

his knee.



Then he lit another cigarette, which did not seem quite as divine as

the first, and considered what might be done to make Windy Corner

drawing-room more distinctive. With that outlook it should have been a

successful room, but the trail of Tottenham Court Road was upon it; he

could almost visualize the motor-vans of Messrs. Shoolbred and Messrs.

Maple arriving at the door and depositing this chair, those varnished

book-cases, that writing-table. The table recalled Mrs. Honeychurch’s

letter. He did not want to read that letter—his temptations never lay

in that direction; but he worried about it none the less. It was his

own fault that she was discussing him with his mother; he had wanted

her support in his third attempt to win Lucy; he wanted to feel that

others, no matter who they were, agreed with him, and so he had asked

their permission. Mrs. Honeychurch had been civil, but obtuse in

essentials, while as for Freddy—“He is only a boy,” he reflected. “I

represent all that he despises. Why should he want me for a

brother-in-law?”



The Honeychurches were a worthy family, but he began to realize that

Lucy was of another clay; and perhaps—he did not put it very

definitely—he ought to introduce her into more congenial circles as

soon as possible.



“Mr. Beebe!” said the maid, and the new rector of Summer Street was

shown in; he had at once started on friendly relations, owing to Lucy’s

praise of him in her letters from Florence.



Cecil greeted him rather critically.



“I’ve come for tea, Mr. Vyse. Do you suppose that I shall get it?”



“I should say so. Food is the thing one does get here—Don’t sit in that

chair; young Honeychurch has left a bone in it.”



“Pfui!”



“I know,” said Cecil. “I know. I can’t think why Mrs. Honeychurch

allows it.”



For Cecil considered the bone and the Maples’ furniture separately; he

did not realize that, taken together, they kindled the room into the

life that he desired.



“I’ve come for tea and for gossip. Isn’t this news?”



“News? I don’t understand you,” said Cecil. “News?”



Mr. Beebe, whose news was of a very different nature, prattled forward.



“I met Sir Harry Otway as I came up; I have every reason to hope that I

am first in the field. He has bought Cissie and Albert from Mr. Flack!”



“Has he indeed?” said Cecil, trying to recover himself. Into what a

grotesque mistake had he fallen! Was it likely that a clergyman and a

gentleman would refer to his engagement in a manner so flippant? But

his stiffness remained, and, though he asked who Cissie and Albert

might be, he still thought Mr. Beebe rather a bounder.



“Unpardonable question! To have stopped a week at Windy Corner and not

to have met Cissie and Albert, the semi-detached villas that have been

run up opposite the church! I’ll set Mrs. Honeychurch after you.”



“I’m shockingly stupid over local affairs,” said the young man

languidly. “I can’t even remember the difference between a Parish

Council and a Local Government Board. Perhaps there is no difference,

or perhaps those aren’t the right names. I only go into the country to

see my friends and to enjoy the scenery. It is very remiss of me. Italy

and London are the only places where I don’t feel to exist on

sufferance.”



Mr. Beebe, distressed at this heavy reception of Cissie and Albert,

determined to shift the subject.



“Let me see, Mr. Vyse—I forget—what is your profession?”



“I have no profession,” said Cecil. “It is another example of my

decadence. My attitude—quite an indefensible one—is that so long as I

am no trouble to any one I have a right to do as I like. I know I ought

to be getting money out of people, or devoting myself to things I don’t

care a straw about, but somehow, I’ve not been able to begin.”



“You are very fortunate,” said Mr. Beebe. “It is a wonderful

opportunity, the possession of leisure.”



His voice was rather parochial, but he did not quite see his way to

answering naturally. He felt, as all who have regular occupation must

feel, that others should have it also.



“I am glad that you approve. I daren’t face the healthy person—for

example, Freddy Honeychurch.”



“Oh, Freddy’s a good sort, isn’t he?”



“Admirable. The sort who has made England what she is.”



Cecil wondered at himself. Why, on this day of all others, was he so

hopelessly contrary? He tried to get right by inquiring effusively

after Mr. Beebe’s mother, an old lady for whom he had no particular

regard. Then he flattered the clergyman, praised his

liberal-mindedness, his enlightened attitude towards philosophy and

science.



“Where are the others?” said Mr. Beebe at last, “I insist on extracting

tea before evening service.”



“I suppose Anne never told them you were here. In this house one is so

coached in the servants the day one arrives. The fault of Anne is that

she begs your pardon when she hears you perfectly, and kicks the

chair-legs with her feet. The faults of Mary—I forget the faults of

Mary, but they are very grave. Shall we look in the garden?”



“I know the faults of Mary. She leaves the dust-pans standing on the

stairs.”



“The fault of Euphemia is that she will not, simply will not, chop the

suet sufficiently small.”



They both laughed, and things began to go better.



“The faults of Freddy—” Cecil continued.



“Ah, he has too many. No one but his mother can remember the faults of

Freddy. Try the faults of Miss Honeychurch; they are not innumerable.”



“She has none,” said the young man, with grave sincerity.



“I quite agree. At present she has none.”



“At present?”



“I’m not cynical. I’m only thinking of my pet theory about Miss

Honeychurch. Does it seem reasonable that she should play so

wonderfully, and live so quietly? I suspect that one day she will be

wonderful in both. The water-tight compartments in her will break down,

and music and life will mingle. Then we shall have her heroically good,

heroically bad—too heroic, perhaps, to be good or bad.”



Cecil found his companion interesting.



“And at present you think her not wonderful as far as life goes?”



“Well, I must say I’ve only seen her at Tunbridge Wells, where she was

not wonderful, and at Florence. Since I came to Summer Street she has

been away. You saw her, didn’t you, at Rome and in the Alps. Oh, I

forgot; of course, you knew her before. No, she wasn’t wonderful in

Florence either, but I kept on expecting that she would be.”



“In what way?”



Conversation had become agreeable to them, and they were pacing up and

down the terrace.



“I could as easily tell you what tune she’ll play next. There was

simply the sense that she had found wings, and meant to use them. I can

show you a beautiful picture in my Italian diary: Miss Honeychurch as a

kite, Miss Bartlett holding the string. Picture number two: the string

breaks.”



The sketch was in his diary, but it had been made afterwards, when he

viewed things artistically. At the time he had given surreptitious tugs

to the string himself.



“But the string never broke?”



“No. I mightn’t have seen Miss Honeychurch rise, but I should certainly

have heard Miss Bartlett fall.”



“It has broken now,” said the young man in low, vibrating tones.



Immediately he realized that of all the conceited, ludicrous,

contemptible ways of announcing an engagement this was the worst. He

cursed his love of metaphor; had he suggested that he was a star and

that Lucy was soaring up to reach him?



“Broken? What do you mean?”



“I meant,” said Cecil stiffly, “that she is going to marry me.”



The clergyman was conscious of some bitter disappointment which he

could not keep out of his voice.



“I am sorry; I must apologize. I had no idea you were intimate with

her, or I should never have talked in this flippant, superficial way.

Mr. Vyse, you ought to have stopped me.” And down the garden he saw

Lucy herself; yes, he was disappointed.



Cecil, who naturally preferred congratulations to apologies, drew down

his mouth at the corners. Was this the reception his action would get

from the world? Of course, he despised the world as a whole; every

thoughtful man should; it is almost a test of refinement. But he was

sensitive to the successive particles of it which he encountered.



Occasionally he could be quite crude.



“I am sorry I have given you a shock,” he said dryly. “I fear that

Lucy’s choice does not meet with your approval.”



“Not that. But you ought to have stopped me. I know Miss Honeychurch

only a little as time goes. Perhaps I oughtn’t to have discussed her so

freely with any one; certainly not with you.”



“You are conscious of having said something indiscreet?”



Mr. Beebe pulled himself together. Really, Mr. Vyse had the art of

placing one in the most tiresome positions. He was driven to use the

prerogatives of his profession.



“No, I have said nothing indiscreet. I foresaw at Florence that her

quiet, uneventful childhood must end, and it has ended. I realized

dimly enough that she might take some momentous step. She has taken it.

She has learnt—you will let me talk freely, as I have begun freely—she

has learnt what it is to love: the greatest lesson, some people will

tell you, that our earthly life provides.” It was now time for him to

wave his hat at the approaching trio. He did not omit to do so. “She

has learnt through you,” and if his voice was still clerical, it was

now also sincere; “let it be your care that her knowledge is profitable

to her.”



“Grazie tante!” said Cecil, who did not like parsons.



“Have you heard?” shouted Mrs. Honeychurch as she toiled up the sloping

garden. “Oh, Mr. Beebe, have you heard the news?”



Freddy, now full of geniality, whistled the wedding march. Youth seldom

criticizes the accomplished fact.



“Indeed I have!” he cried. He looked at Lucy. In her presence he could

not act the parson any longer—at all events not without apology. “Mrs.

Honeychurch, I’m going to do what I am always supposed to do, but

generally I’m too shy. I want to invoke every kind of blessing on them,

grave and gay, great and small. I want them all their lives to be

supremely good and supremely happy as husband and wife, as father and

mother. And now I want my tea.”



“You only asked for it just in time,” the lady retorted. “How dare you

be serious at Windy Corner?”



He took his tone from her. There was no more heavy beneficence, no more

attempts to dignify the situation with poetry or the Scriptures. None

of them dared or was able to be serious any more.



An engagement is so potent a thing that sooner or later it reduces all

who speak of it to this state of cheerful awe. Away from it, in the

solitude of their rooms, Mr. Beebe, and even Freddy, might again be

critical. But in its presence and in the presence of each other they

were sincerely hilarious. It has a strange power, for it compels not

only the lips, but the very heart. The chief parallel to compare one

great thing with another—is the power over us of a temple of some alien

creed. Standing outside, we deride or oppose it, or at the most feel

sentimental. Inside, though the saints and gods are not ours, we become

true believers, in case any true believer should be present.



So it was that after the gropings and the misgivings of the afternoon

they pulled themselves together and settled down to a very pleasant

tea-party. If they were hypocrites they did not know it, and their

hypocrisy had every chance of setting and of becoming true. Anne,

putting down each plate as if it were a wedding present, stimulated

them greatly. They could not lag behind that smile of hers which she

gave them ere she kicked the drawing-room door. Mr. Beebe chirruped.

Freddy was at his wittiest, referring to Cecil as the “Fiasco”—family

honoured pun on fiance. Mrs. Honeychurch, amusing and portly, promised

well as a mother-in-law. As for Lucy and Cecil, for whom the temple had

been built, they also joined in the merry ritual, but waited, as

earnest worshippers should, for the disclosure of some holier shrine of

joy.









Chapter IX

Lucy As a Work of Art





A few days after the engagement was announced Mrs. Honeychurch made

Lucy and her Fiasco come to a little garden-party in the neighbourhood,

for naturally she wanted to show people that her daughter was marrying

a presentable man.



Cecil was more than presentable; he looked distinguished, and it was

very pleasant to see his slim figure keeping step with Lucy, and his

long, fair face responding when Lucy spoke to him. People congratulated

Mrs. Honeychurch, which is, I believe, a social blunder, but it pleased

her, and she introduced Cecil rather indiscriminately to some stuffy

dowagers.



At tea a misfortune took place: a cup of coffee was upset over Lucy’s

figured silk, and though Lucy feigned indifference, her mother feigned

nothing of the sort but dragged her indoors to have the frock treated

by a sympathetic maid. They were gone some time, and Cecil was left

with the dowagers. When they returned he was not as pleasant as he had

been.



“Do you go to much of this sort of thing?” he asked when they were

driving home.



“Oh, now and then,” said Lucy, who had rather enjoyed herself.



“Is it typical of country society?”



“I suppose so. Mother, would it be?”



“Plenty of society,” said Mrs. Honeychurch, who was trying to remember

the hang of one of the dresses.



Seeing that her thoughts were elsewhere, Cecil bent towards Lucy and

said:



“To me it seemed perfectly appalling, disastrous, portentous.”



“I am so sorry that you were stranded.”



“Not that, but the congratulations. It is so disgusting, the way an

engagement is regarded as public property—a kind of waste place where

every outsider may shoot his vulgar sentiment. All those old women

smirking!”



“One has to go through it, I suppose. They won’t notice us so much next

time.”



“But my point is that their whole attitude is wrong. An

engagement—horrid word in the first place—is a private matter, and

should be treated as such.”



Yet the smirking old women, however wrong individually, were racially

correct. The spirit of the generations had smiled through them,

rejoicing in the engagement of Cecil and Lucy because it promised the

continuance of life on earth. To Cecil and Lucy it promised something

quite different—personal love. Hence Cecil’s irritation and Lucy’s

belief that his irritation was just.



“How tiresome!” she said. “Couldn’t you have escaped to tennis?”



“I don’t play tennis—at least, not in public. The neighbourhood is

deprived of the romance of me being athletic. Such romance as I have is

that of the Inglese Italianato.”



“Inglese Italianato?”



“E un diavolo incarnato! You know the proverb?”



She did not. Nor did it seem applicable to a young man who had spent a

quiet winter in Rome with his mother. But Cecil, since his engagement,

had taken to affect a cosmopolitan naughtiness which he was far from

possessing.



“Well,” said he, “I cannot help it if they do disapprove of me. There

are certain irremovable barriers between myself and them, and I must

accept them.”



“We all have our limitations, I suppose,” said wise Lucy.



“Sometimes they are forced on us, though,” said Cecil, who saw from her

remark that she did not quite understand his position.



“How?”



“It makes a difference doesn’t it, whether we fully fence ourselves in,

or whether we are fenced out by the barriers of others?”



She thought a moment, and agreed that it did make a difference.



“Difference?” cried Mrs. Honeychurch, suddenly alert. “I don’t see any

difference. Fences are fences, especially when they are in the same

place.”



“We were speaking of motives,” said Cecil, on whom the interruption

jarred.



“My dear Cecil, look here.” She spread out her knees and perched her

card-case on her lap. “This is me. That’s Windy Corner. The rest of the

pattern is the other people. Motives are all very well, but the fence

comes here.”



“We weren’t talking of real fences,” said Lucy, laughing.



“Oh, I see, dear—poetry.”



She leant placidly back. Cecil wondered why Lucy had been amused.



“I tell you who has no ‘fences,’ as you call them,” she said, “and

that’s Mr. Beebe.”



“A parson fenceless would mean a parson defenceless.”



Lucy was slow to follow what people said, but quick enough to detect

what they meant. She missed Cecil’s epigram, but grasped the feeling

that prompted it.



“Don’t you like Mr. Beebe?” she asked thoughtfully.



“I never said so!” he cried. “I consider him far above the average. I

only denied—” And he swept off on the subject of fences again, and was

brilliant.



“Now, a clergyman that I do hate,” said she wanting to say something

sympathetic, “a clergyman that does have fences, and the most dreadful

ones, is Mr. Eager, the English chaplain at Florence. He was truly

insincere—not merely the manner unfortunate. He was a snob, and so

conceited, and he did say such unkind things.”



“What sort of things?”



“There was an old man at the Bertolini whom he said had murdered his

wife.”



“Perhaps he had.”



“No!”



“Why ‘no’?”



“He was such a nice old man, I’m sure.”



Cecil laughed at her feminine inconsequence.



“Well, I did try to sift the thing. Mr. Eager would never come to the

point. He prefers it vague—said the old man had ‘practically’ murdered

his wife—had murdered her in the sight of God.”



“Hush, dear!” said Mrs. Honeychurch absently.



“But isn’t it intolerable that a person whom we’re told to imitate

should go round spreading slander? It was, I believe, chiefly owing to

him that the old man was dropped. People pretended he was vulgar, but

he certainly wasn’t that.”



“Poor old man! What was his name?”



“Harris,” said Lucy glibly.



“Let’s hope that Mrs. Harris there warn’t no sich person,” said her

mother.



Cecil nodded intelligently.



“Isn’t Mr. Eager a parson of the cultured type?” he asked.



“I don’t know. I hate him. I’ve heard him lecture on Giotto. I hate

him. Nothing can hide a petty nature. I _hate_ him.”



“My goodness gracious me, child!” said Mrs. Honeychurch. “You’ll blow

my head off! Whatever is there to shout over? I forbid you and Cecil to

hate any more clergymen.”



He smiled. There was indeed something rather incongruous in Lucy’s

moral outburst over Mr. Eager. It was as if one should see the Leonardo

on the ceiling of the Sistine. He longed to hint to her that not here

lay her vocation; that a woman’s power and charm reside in mystery, not

in muscular rant. But possibly rant is a sign of vitality: it mars the

beautiful creature, but shows that she is alive. After a moment, he

contemplated her flushed face and excited gestures with a certain

approval. He forebore to repress the sources of youth.



Nature—simplest of topics, he thought—lay around them. He praised the

pine-woods, the deep lasts of bracken, the crimson leaves that spotted

the hurt-bushes, the serviceable beauty of the turnpike road. The

outdoor world was not very familiar to him, and occasionally he went

wrong in a question of fact. Mrs. Honeychurch’s mouth twitched when he

spoke of the perpetual green of the larch.



“I count myself a lucky person,” he concluded, “When I’m in London I

feel I could never live out of it. When I’m in the country I feel the

same about the country. After all, I do believe that birds and trees

and the sky are the most wonderful things in life, and that the people

who live amongst them must be the best. It’s true that in nine cases

out of ten they don’t seem to notice anything. The country gentleman

and the country labourer are each in their way the most depressing of

companions. Yet they may have a tacit sympathy with the workings of

Nature which is denied to us of the town. Do you feel that, Mrs.

Honeychurch?”



Mrs. Honeychurch started and smiled. She had not been attending. Cecil,

who was rather crushed on the front seat of the victoria, felt

irritable, and determined not to say anything interesting again.



Lucy had not attended either. Her brow was wrinkled, and she still

looked furiously cross—the result, he concluded, of too much moral

gymnastics. It was sad to see her thus blind to the beauties of an

August wood.



“‘Come down, O maid, from yonder mountain height,’” he quoted, and

touched her knee with his own.



She flushed again and said: “What height?”



“‘Come down, O maid, from yonder mountain height,

What pleasure lives in height (the shepherd sang).

In height and in the splendour of the hills?’





Let us take Mrs. Honeychurch’s advice and hate clergymen no more.

What’s this place?”



“Summer Street, of course,” said Lucy, and roused herself.



The woods had opened to leave space for a sloping triangular meadow.

Pretty cottages lined it on two sides, and the upper and third side was

occupied by a new stone church, expensively simple, a charming shingled

spire. Mr. Beebe’s house was near the church. In height it scarcely

exceeded the cottages. Some great mansions were at hand, but they were

hidden in the trees. The scene suggested a Swiss Alp rather than the

shrine and centre of a leisured world, and was marred only by two ugly

little villas—the villas that had competed with Cecil’s engagement,

having been acquired by Sir Harry Otway the very afternoon that Lucy

had been acquired by Cecil.



“Cissie” was the name of one of these villas, “Albert” of the other.

These titles were not only picked out in shaded Gothic on the garden

gates, but appeared a second time on the porches, where they followed

the semicircular curve of the entrance arch in block capitals. “Albert”

was inhabited. His tortured garden was bright with geraniums and

lobelias and polished shells. His little windows were chastely swathed

in Nottingham lace. “Cissie” was to let. Three notice-boards, belonging

to Dorking agents, lolled on her fence and announced the not surprising

fact. Her paths were already weedy; her pocket-handkerchief of a lawn

was yellow with dandelions.



“The place is ruined!” said the ladies mechanically. “Summer Street

will never be the same again.”



As the carriage passed, “Cissie’s” door opened, and a gentleman came

out of her.



“Stop!” cried Mrs. Honeychurch, touching the coachman with her parasol.

“Here’s Sir Harry. Now we shall know. Sir Harry, pull those things down

at once!”



Sir Harry Otway—who need not be described—came to the carriage and said

“Mrs. Honeychurch, I meant to. I can’t, I really can’t turn out Miss

Flack.”



“Am I not always right? She ought to have gone before the contract was

signed. Does she still live rent free, as she did in her nephew’s

time?”



“But what can I do?” He lowered his voice. “An old lady, so very

vulgar, and almost bedridden.”



“Turn her out,” said Cecil bravely.



Sir Harry sighed, and looked at the villas mournfully. He had had full

warning of Mr. Flack’s intentions, and might have bought the plot

before building commenced: but he was apathetic and dilatory. He had

known Summer Street for so many years that he could not imagine it

being spoilt. Not till Mrs. Flack had laid the foundation stone, and

the apparition of red and cream brick began to rise did he take alarm.

He called on Mr. Flack, the local builder,—a most reasonable and

respectful man—who agreed that tiles would have made more artistic

roof, but pointed out that slates were cheaper. He ventured to differ,

however, about the Corinthian columns which were to cling like leeches

to the frames of the bow windows, saying that, for his part, he liked

to relieve the façade by a bit of decoration. Sir Harry hinted that a

column, if possible, should be structural as well as decorative.



Mr. Flack replied that all the columns had been ordered, adding, “and

all the capitals different—one with dragons in the foliage, another

approaching to the Ionian style, another introducing Mrs. Flack’s

initials—every one different.” For he had read his Ruskin. He built his

villas according to his desire; and not until he had inserted an

immovable aunt into one of them did Sir Harry buy.



This futile and unprofitable transaction filled the knight with sadness

as he leant on Mrs. Honeychurch’s carriage. He had failed in his duties

to the country-side, and the country-side was laughing at him as well.

He had spent money, and yet Summer Street was spoilt as much as ever.

All he could do now was to find a desirable tenant for “Cissie”—someone

really desirable.



“The rent is absurdly low,” he told them, “and perhaps I am an easy

landlord. But it is such an awkward size. It is too large for the

peasant class and too small for any one the least like ourselves.”



Cecil had been hesitating whether he should despise the villas or

despise Sir Harry for despising them. The latter impulse seemed the

more fruitful.



“You ought to find a tenant at once,” he said maliciously. “It would be

a perfect paradise for a bank clerk.”



“Exactly!” said Sir Harry excitedly. “That is exactly what I fear, Mr.

Vyse. It will attract the wrong type of people. The train service has

improved—a fatal improvement, to my mind. And what are five miles from

a station in these days of bicycles?”



“Rather a strenuous clerk it would be,” said Lucy.



Cecil, who had his full share of mediaeval mischievousness, replied

that the physique of the lower middle classes was improving at a most

appalling rate. She saw that he was laughing at their harmless

neighbour, and roused herself to stop him.



“Sir Harry!” she exclaimed, “I have an idea. How would you like

spinsters?”



“My dear Lucy, it would be splendid. Do you know any such?”



“Yes; I met them abroad.”



“Gentlewomen?” he asked tentatively.



“Yes, indeed, and at the present moment homeless. I heard from them

last week—Miss Teresa and Miss Catharine Alan. I’m really not joking.

They are quite the right people. Mr. Beebe knows them, too. May I tell

them to write to you?”



“Indeed you may!” he cried. “Here we are with the difficulty solved

already. How delightful it is! Extra facilities—please tell them they

shall have extra facilities, for I shall have no agents’ fees. Oh, the

agents! The appalling people they have sent me! One woman, when I

wrote—a tactful letter, you know—asking her to explain her social

position to me, replied that she would pay the rent in advance. As if

one cares about that! And several references I took up were most

unsatisfactory—people swindlers, or not respectable. And oh, the

deceit! I have seen a good deal of the seamy side this last week. The

deceit of the most promising people. My dear Lucy, the deceit!”



She nodded.



“My advice,” put in Mrs. Honeychurch, “is to have nothing to do with

Lucy and her decayed gentlewomen at all. I know the type. Preserve me

from people who have seen better days, and bring heirlooms with them

that make the house smell stuffy. It’s a sad thing, but I’d far rather

let to some one who is going up in the world than to someone who has

come down.”



“I think I follow you,” said Sir Harry; “but it is, as you say, a very

sad thing.”



“The Misses Alan aren’t that!” cried Lucy.



“Yes, they are,” said Cecil. “I haven’t met them but I should say they

were a highly unsuitable addition to the neighbourhood.”



“Don’t listen to him, Sir Harry—he’s tiresome.”



“It’s I who am tiresome,” he replied. “I oughtn’t to come with my

troubles to young people. But really I am so worried, and Lady Otway

will only say that I cannot be too careful, which is quite true, but no

real help.”



“Then may I write to my Misses Alan?”



“Please!”



But his eye wavered when Mrs. Honeychurch exclaimed:



“Beware! They are certain to have canaries. Sir Harry, beware of

canaries: they spit the seed out through the bars of the cages and then

the mice come. Beware of women altogether. Only let to a man.”



“Really—” he murmured gallantly, though he saw the wisdom of her

remark.



“Men don’t gossip over tea-cups. If they get drunk, there’s an end of

them—they lie down comfortably and sleep it off. If they’re vulgar,

they somehow keep it to themselves. It doesn’t spread so. Give me a

man—of course, provided he’s clean.”



Sir Harry blushed. Neither he nor Cecil enjoyed these open compliments

to their sex. Even the exclusion of the dirty did not leave them much

distinction. He suggested that Mrs. Honeychurch, if she had time,

should descend from the carriage and inspect “Cissie” for herself. She

was delighted. Nature had intended her to be poor and to live in such a

house. Domestic arrangements always attracted her, especially when they

were on a small scale.



Cecil pulled Lucy back as she followed her mother.



“Mrs. Honeychurch,” he said, “what if we two walk home and leave you?”



“Certainly!” was her cordial reply.



Sir Harry likewise seemed almost too glad to get rid of them. He beamed

at them knowingly, said, “Aha! young people, young people!” and then

hastened to unlock the house.



“Hopeless vulgarian!” exclaimed Cecil, almost before they were out of

earshot.



“Oh, Cecil!”



“I can’t help it. It would be wrong not to loathe that man.”



“He isn’t clever, but really he is nice.”



“No, Lucy, he stands for all that is bad in country life. In London he

would keep his place. He would belong to a brainless club, and his wife

would give brainless dinner parties. But down here he acts the little

god with his gentility, and his patronage, and his sham aesthetics, and

every one—even your mother—is taken in.”



“All that you say is quite true,” said Lucy, though she felt

discouraged. “I wonder whether—whether it matters so very much.”



“It matters supremely. Sir Harry is the essence of that garden-party.

Oh, goodness, how cross I feel! How I do hope he’ll get some vulgar

tenant in that villa—some woman so really vulgar that he’ll notice it.

_Gentlefolks!_ Ugh! with his bald head and retreating chin! But let’s

forget him.”



This Lucy was glad enough to do. If Cecil disliked Sir Harry Otway and

Mr. Beebe, what guarantee was there that the people who really mattered

to her would escape? For instance, Freddy. Freddy was neither clever,

nor subtle, nor beautiful, and what prevented Cecil from saying, any

minute, “It would be wrong not to loathe Freddy”? And what would she

reply? Further than Freddy she did not go, but he gave her anxiety

enough. She could only assure herself that Cecil had known Freddy some

time, and that they had always got on pleasantly, except, perhaps,

during the last few days, which was an accident, perhaps.



“Which way shall we go?” she asked him.



Nature—simplest of topics, she thought—was around them. Summer Street

lay deep in the woods, and she had stopped where a footpath diverged

from the highroad.



“Are there two ways?”



“Perhaps the road is more sensible, as we’re got up smart.”



“I’d rather go through the wood,” said Cecil, with that subdued

irritation that she had noticed in him all the afternoon. “Why is it,

Lucy, that you always say the road? Do you know that you have never

once been with me in the fields or the wood since we were engaged?”



“Haven’t I? The wood, then,” said Lucy, startled at his queerness, but

pretty sure that he would explain later; it was not his habit to leave

her in doubt as to his meaning.



She led the way into the whispering pines, and sure enough he did

explain before they had gone a dozen yards.



“I had got an idea—I dare say wrongly—that you feel more at home with

me in a room.”



“A room?” she echoed, hopelessly bewildered.



“Yes. Or, at the most, in a garden, or on a road. Never in the real

country like this.”



“Oh, Cecil, whatever do you mean? I have never felt anything of the

sort. You talk as if I was a kind of poetess sort of person.”



“I don’t know that you aren’t. I connect you with a view—a certain type

of view. Why shouldn’t you connect me with a room?”



She reflected a moment, and then said, laughing:



“Do you know that you’re right? I do. I must be a poetess after all.

When I think of you it’s always as in a room. How funny!”



To her surprise, he seemed annoyed.



“A drawing-room, pray? With no view?”



“Yes, with no view, I fancy. Why not?”



“I’d rather,” he said reproachfully, “that you connected me with the

open air.”



She said again, “Oh, Cecil, whatever do you mean?”



As no explanation was forthcoming, she shook off the subject as too

difficult for a girl, and led him further into the wood, pausing every

now and then at some particularly beautiful or familiar combination of

the trees. She had known the wood between Summer Street and Windy

Corner ever since she could walk alone; she had played at losing Freddy

in it, when Freddy was a purple-faced baby; and though she had been to

Italy, it had lost none of its charm.



Presently they came to a little clearing among the pines—another tiny

green alp, solitary this time, and holding in its bosom a shallow pool.



She exclaimed, “The Sacred Lake!”



“Why do you call it that?”



“I can’t remember why. I suppose it comes out of some book. It’s only a

puddle now, but you see that stream going through it? Well, a good deal

of water comes down after heavy rains, and can’t get away at once, and

the pool becomes quite large and beautiful. Then Freddy used to bathe

there. He is very fond of it.”



“And you?”



He meant, “Are you fond of it?” But she answered dreamily, “I bathed

here, too, till I was found out. Then there was a row.”



At another time he might have been shocked, for he had depths of

prudishness within him. But now? with his momentary cult of the fresh

air, he was delighted at her admirable simplicity. He looked at her as

she stood by the pool’s edge. She was got up smart, as she phrased it,

and she reminded him of some brilliant flower that has no leaves of its

own, but blooms abruptly out of a world of green.



“Who found you out?”



“Charlotte,” she murmured. “She was stopping with us.

Charlotte—Charlotte.”



“Poor girl!”



She smiled gravely. A certain scheme, from which hitherto he had

shrunk, now appeared practical.



“Lucy!”



“Yes, I suppose we ought to be going,” was her reply.



“Lucy, I want to ask something of you that I have never asked before.”



At the serious note in his voice she stepped frankly and kindly towards

him.



“What, Cecil?”



“Hitherto never—not even that day on the lawn when you agreed to marry

me—”



He became self-conscious and kept glancing round to see if they were

observed. His courage had gone.



“Yes?”



“Up to now I have never kissed you.”



She was as scarlet as if he had put the thing most indelicately.



“No—more you have,” she stammered.



“Then I ask you—may I now?”



“Of course, you may, Cecil. You might before. I can’t run at you, you

know.”



At that supreme moment he was conscious of nothing but absurdities. Her

reply was inadequate. She gave such a business-like lift to her veil.

As he approached her he found time to wish that he could recoil. As he

touched her, his gold pince-nez became dislodged and was flattened

between them.



Such was the embrace. He considered, with truth, that it had been a

failure. Passion should believe itself irresistible. It should forget

civility and consideration and all the other curses of a refined

nature. Above all, it should never ask for leave where there is a right

of way. Why could he not do as any labourer or navvy—nay, as any young

man behind the counter would have done? He recast the scene. Lucy was

standing flowerlike by the water, he rushed up and took her in his

arms; she rebuked him, permitted him and revered him ever after for his

manliness. For he believed that women revere men for their manliness.



They left the pool in silence, after this one salutation. He waited for

her to make some remark which should show him her inmost thoughts. At

last she spoke, and with fitting gravity.



“Emerson was the name, not Harris.”



“What name?”



“The old man’s.”



“What old man?”



“That old man I told you about. The one Mr. Eager was so unkind to.”



He could not know that this was the most intimate conversation they had

ever had.









Chapter X

Cecil as a Humourist





The society out of which Cecil proposed to rescue Lucy was perhaps no

very splendid affair, yet it was more splendid than her antecedents

entitled her to. Her father, a prosperous local solicitor, had built

Windy Corner, as a speculation at the time the district was opening up,

and, falling in love with his own creation, had ended by living there

himself. Soon after his marriage the social atmosphere began to alter.

Other houses were built on the brow of that steep southern slope and

others, again, among the pine-trees behind, and northward on the chalk

barrier of the downs. Most of these houses were larger than Windy

Corner, and were filled by people who came, not from the district, but

from London, and who mistook the Honeychurches for the remnants of an

indigenous aristocracy. He was inclined to be frightened, but his wife

accepted the situation without either pride or humility. “I cannot

think what people are doing,” she would say, “but it is extremely

fortunate for the children.” She called everywhere; her calls were

returned with enthusiasm, and by the time people found out that she was

not exactly of their _milieu_, they liked her, and it did not seem to

matter. When Mr. Honeychurch died, he had the satisfaction—which few

honest solicitors despise—of leaving his family rooted in the best

society obtainable.



The best obtainable. Certainly many of the immigrants were rather dull,

and Lucy realized this more vividly since her return from Italy.

Hitherto she had accepted their ideals without questioning—their kindly

affluence, their inexplosive religion, their dislike of paper-bags,

orange-peel, and broken bottles. A Radical out and out, she learnt to

speak with horror of Suburbia. Life, so far as she troubled to conceive

it, was a circle of rich, pleasant people, with identical interests and

identical foes. In this circle, one thought, married, and died. Outside

it were poverty and vulgarity for ever trying to enter, just as the

London fog tries to enter the pine-woods pouring through the gaps in

the northern hills. But, in Italy, where any one who chooses may warm

himself in equality, as in the sun, this conception of life vanished.

Her senses expanded; she felt that there was no one whom she might not

get to like, that social barriers were irremovable, doubtless, but not

particularly high. You jump over them just as you jump into a peasant’s

olive-yard in the Apennines, and he is glad to see you. She returned

with new eyes.



So did Cecil; but Italy had quickened Cecil, not to tolerance, but to

irritation. He saw that the local society was narrow, but, instead of

saying, “Does that very much matter?” he rebelled, and tried to

substitute for it the society he called broad. He did not realize that

Lucy had consecrated her environment by the thousand little civilities

that create a tenderness in time, and that though her eyes saw its

defects, her heart refused to despise it entirely. Nor did he realize a

more important point—that if she was too great for this society, she

was too great for all society, and had reached the stage where personal

intercourse would alone satisfy her. A rebel she was, but not of the

kind he understood—a rebel who desired, not a wider dwelling-room, but

equality beside the man she loved. For Italy was offering her the most

priceless of all possessions—her own soul.



Playing bumble-puppy with Minnie Beebe, niece to the rector, and aged

thirteen—an ancient and most honourable game, which consists in

striking tennis-balls high into the air, so that they fall over the net

and immoderately bounce; some hit Mrs. Honeychurch; others are lost.

The sentence is confused, but the better illustrates Lucy’s state of

mind, for she was trying to talk to Mr. Beebe at the same time.



“Oh, it has been such a nuisance—first he, then they—no one knowing

what they wanted, and everyone so tiresome.”



“But they really are coming now,” said Mr. Beebe. “I wrote to Miss

Teresa a few days ago—she was wondering how often the butcher called,

and my reply of once a month must have impressed her favourably. They

are coming. I heard from them this morning.



“I shall hate those Miss Alans!” Mrs. Honeychurch cried. “Just because

they’re old and silly one’s expected to say ‘How sweet!’ I hate their

‘if’-ing and ‘but’-ing and ‘and’-ing. And poor Lucy—serve her

right—worn to a shadow.”



Mr. Beebe watched the shadow springing and shouting over the

tennis-court. Cecil was absent—one did not play bumble-puppy when he

was there.



“Well, if they are coming—No, Minnie, not Saturn.” Saturn was a

tennis-ball whose skin was partially unsewn. When in motion his orb was

encircled by a ring. “If they are coming, Sir Harry will let them move

in before the twenty-ninth, and he will cross out the clause about

whitewashing the ceilings, because it made them nervous, and put in the

fair wear and tear one.—That doesn’t count. I told you not Saturn.”



“Saturn’s all right for bumble-puppy,” cried Freddy, joining them.

“Minnie, don’t you listen to her.”



“Saturn doesn’t bounce.”



“Saturn bounces enough.”



“No, he doesn’t.”



“Well; he bounces better than the Beautiful White Devil.”



“Hush, dear,” said Mrs. Honeychurch.



“But look at Lucy—complaining of Saturn, and all the time’s got the

Beautiful White Devil in her hand, ready to plug it in. That’s right,

Minnie, go for her—get her over the shins with the racquet—get her over

the shins!”



Lucy fell, the Beautiful White Devil rolled from her hand.



Mr. Beebe picked it up, and said: “The name of this ball is Vittoria

Corombona, please.” But his correction passed unheeded.



Freddy possessed to a high degree the power of lashing little girls to

fury, and in half a minute he had transformed Minnie from a

well-mannered child into a howling wilderness. Up in the house Cecil

heard them, and, though he was full of entertaining news, he did not

come down to impart it, in case he got hurt. He was not a coward and

bore necessary pain as well as any man. But he hated the physical

violence of the young. How right it was! Sure enough it ended in a cry.



“I wish the Miss Alans could see this,” observed Mr. Beebe, just as

Lucy, who was nursing the injured Minnie, was in turn lifted off her

feet by her brother.



“Who are the Miss Alans?” Freddy panted.



“They have taken Cissie Villa.”



“That wasn’t the name—”



Here his foot slipped, and they all fell most agreeably on to the

grass. An interval elapses.



“Wasn’t what name?” asked Lucy, with her brother’s head in her lap.



“Alan wasn’t the name of the people Sir Harry’s let to.”



“Nonsense, Freddy! You know nothing about it.”



“Nonsense yourself! I’ve this minute seen him. He said to me: ‘Ahem!

Honeychurch,’”—Freddy was an indifferent mimic—“‘ahem! ahem! I have at

last procured really dee-sire-rebel tenants.’ I said, ‘ooray, old boy!’

and slapped him on the back.”



“Exactly. The Miss Alans?”



“Rather not. More like Anderson.”



“Oh, good gracious, there isn’t going to be another muddle!” Mrs.

Honeychurch exclaimed. “Do you notice, Lucy, I’m always right? I _said_

don’t interfere with Cissie Villa. I’m always right. I’m quite uneasy

at being always right so often.”



“It’s only another muddle of Freddy’s. Freddy doesn’t even know the

name of the people he pretends have taken it instead.”



“Yes, I do. I’ve got it. Emerson.”



“What name?”



“Emerson. I’ll bet you anything you like.”



“What a weathercock Sir Harry is,” said Lucy quietly. “I wish I had

never bothered over it at all.”



Then she lay on her back and gazed at the cloudless sky. Mr. Beebe,

whose opinion of her rose daily, whispered to his niece that _that_ was

the proper way to behave if any little thing went wrong.



Meanwhile the name of the new tenants had diverted Mrs. Honeychurch

from the contemplation of her own abilities.



“Emerson, Freddy? Do you know what Emersons they are?”



“I don’t know whether they’re any Emersons,” retorted Freddy, who was

democratic. Like his sister and like most young people, he was

naturally attracted by the idea of equality, and the undeniable fact

that there are different kinds of Emersons annoyed him beyond measure.



“I trust they are the right sort of person. All right, Lucy”—she was

sitting up again—“I see you looking down your nose and thinking your

mother’s a snob. But there is a right sort and a wrong sort, and it’s

affectation to pretend there isn’t.”



“Emerson’s a common enough name,” Lucy remarked.



She was gazing sideways. Seated on a promontory herself, she could see

the pine-clad promontories descending one beyond another into the

Weald. The further one descended the garden, the more glorious was this

lateral view.



“I was merely going to remark, Freddy, that I trusted they were no

relations of Emerson the philosopher, a most trying man. Pray, does

that satisfy you?”



“Oh, yes,” he grumbled. “And you will be satisfied, too, for they’re

friends of Cecil; so”—elaborate irony—“you and the other country

families will be able to call in perfect safety.”



“_Cecil?_” exclaimed Lucy.



“Don’t be rude, dear,” said his mother placidly. “Lucy, don’t screech.

It’s a new bad habit you’re getting into.”



“But has Cecil—”



“Friends of Cecil’s,” he repeated, “‘and so really dee-sire-rebel.

Ahem! Honeychurch, I have just telegraphed to them.’”



She got up from the grass.



It was hard on Lucy. Mr. Beebe sympathized with her very much. While

she believed that her snub about the Miss Alans came from Sir Harry

Otway, she had borne it like a good girl. She might well “screech” when

she heard that it came partly from her lover. Mr. Vyse was a

tease—something worse than a tease: he took a malicious pleasure in

thwarting people. The clergyman, knowing this, looked at Miss

Honeychurch with more than his usual kindness.



When she exclaimed, “But Cecil’s Emersons—they can’t possibly be the

same ones—there is that—” he did not consider that the exclamation was

strange, but saw in it an opportunity of diverting the conversation

while she recovered her composure. He diverted it as follows:



“The Emersons who were at Florence, do you mean? No, I don’t suppose it

will prove to be them. It is probably a long cry from them to friends

of Mr. Vyse’s. Oh, Mrs. Honeychurch, the oddest people! The queerest

people! For our part we liked them, didn’t we?” He appealed to Lucy.

“There was a great scene over some violets. They picked violets and

filled all the vases in the room of these very Miss Alans who have

failed to come to Cissie Villa. Poor little ladies! So shocked and so

pleased. It used to be one of Miss Catharine’s great stories. ‘My dear

sister loves flowers,’ it began. They found the whole room a mass of

blue—vases and jugs—and the story ends with ‘So ungentlemanly and yet

so beautiful.’ It is all very difficult. Yes, I always connect those

Florentine Emersons with violets.”



“Fiasco’s done you this time,” remarked Freddy, not seeing that his

sister’s face was very red. She could not recover herself. Mr. Beebe

saw it, and continued to divert the conversation.



“These particular Emersons consisted of a father and a son—the son a

goodly, if not a good young man; not a fool, I fancy, but very

immature—pessimism, et cetera. Our special joy was the father—such a

sentimental darling, and people declared he had murdered his wife.”



In his normal state Mr. Beebe would never have repeated such gossip,

but he was trying to shelter Lucy in her little trouble. He repeated

any rubbish that came into his head.



“Murdered his wife?” said Mrs. Honeychurch. “Lucy, don’t desert us—go

on playing bumble-puppy. Really, the Pension Bertolini must have been

the oddest place. That’s the second murderer I’ve heard of as being

there. Whatever was Charlotte doing to stop? By-the-by, we really must

ask Charlotte here some time.”



Mr. Beebe could recall no second murderer. He suggested that his

hostess was mistaken. At the hint of opposition she warmed. She was

perfectly sure that there had been a second tourist of whom the same

story had been told. The name escaped her. What was the name? Oh, what

was the name? She clasped her knees for the name. Something in

Thackeray. She struck her matronly forehead.



Lucy asked her brother whether Cecil was in.



“Oh, don’t go!” he cried, and tried to catch her by the ankles.



“I must go,” she said gravely. “Don’t be silly. You always overdo it

when you play.”



As she left them her mother’s shout of “Harris!” shivered the tranquil

air, and reminded her that she had told a lie and had never put it

right. Such a senseless lie, too, yet it shattered her nerves and made

her connect these Emersons, friends of Cecil’s, with a pair of

nondescript tourists. Hitherto truth had come to her naturally. She saw

that for the future she must be more vigilant, and be—absolutely

truthful? Well, at all events, she must not tell lies. She hurried up

the garden, still flushed with shame. A word from Cecil would soothe

her, she was sure.



“Cecil!”



“Hullo!” he called, and leant out of the smoking-room window. He seemed

in high spirits. “I was hoping you’d come. I heard you all

bear-gardening, but there’s better fun up here. I, even I, have won a

great victory for the Comic Muse. George Meredith’s right—the cause of

Comedy and the cause of Truth are really the same; and I, even I, have

found tenants for the distressful Cissie Villa. Don’t be angry! Don’t

be angry! You’ll forgive me when you hear it all.”



He looked very attractive when his face was bright, and he dispelled

her ridiculous forebodings at once.



“I have heard,” she said. “Freddy has told us. Naughty Cecil! I suppose

I must forgive you. Just think of all the trouble I took for nothing!

Certainly the Miss Alans are a little tiresome, and I’d rather have

nice friends of yours. But you oughtn’t to tease one so.”



“Friends of mine?” he laughed. “But, Lucy, the whole joke is to come!

Come here.” But she remained standing where she was. “Do you know where

I met these desirable tenants? In the National Gallery, when I was up

to see my mother last week.”



“What an odd place to meet people!” she said nervously. “I don’t quite

understand.”



“In the Umbrian Room. Absolute strangers. They were admiring Luca

Signorelli—of course, quite stupidly. However, we got talking, and they

refreshed me not a little. They had been to Italy.”



“But, Cecil—” proceeded hilariously.



“In the course of conversation they said that they wanted a country

cottage—the father to live there, the son to run down for week-ends. I

thought, ‘What a chance of scoring off Sir Harry!’ and I took their

address and a London reference, found they weren’t actual

blackguards—it was great sport—and wrote to him, making out—”



“Cecil! No, it’s not fair. I’ve probably met them before—”



He bore her down.



“Perfectly fair. Anything is fair that punishes a snob. That old man

will do the neighbourhood a world of good. Sir Harry is too disgusting

with his ‘decayed gentlewomen.’ I meant to read him a lesson some time.

No, Lucy, the classes ought to mix, and before long you’ll agree with

me. There ought to be intermarriage—all sorts of things. I believe in

democracy—”



“No, you don’t,” she snapped. “You don’t know what the word means.”



He stared at her, and felt again that she had failed to be

Leonardesque. “No, you don’t!”



Her face was inartistic—that of a peevish virago.



“It isn’t fair, Cecil. I blame you—I blame you very much indeed. You

had no business to undo my work about the Miss Alans, and make me look

ridiculous. You call it scoring off Sir Harry, but do you realize that

it is all at my expense? I consider it most disloyal of you.”



She left him.



“Temper!” he thought, raising his eyebrows.



No, it was worse than temper—snobbishness. As long as Lucy thought that

his own smart friends were supplanting the Miss Alans, she had not

minded. He perceived that these new tenants might be of value

educationally. He would tolerate the father and draw out the son, who

was silent. In the interests of the Comic Muse and of Truth, he would

bring them to Windy Corner.









Chapter XI

In Mrs. Vyse’s Well-Appointed Flat





The Comic Muse, though able to look after her own interests, did not

disdain the assistance of Mr. Vyse. His idea of bringing the Emersons

to Windy Corner struck her as decidedly good, and she carried through

the negotiations without a hitch. Sir Harry Otway signed the agreement,

met Mr. Emerson, who was duly disillusioned. The Miss Alans were duly

offended, and wrote a dignified letter to Lucy, whom they held

responsible for the failure. Mr. Beebe planned pleasant moments for the

new-comers, and told Mrs. Honeychurch that Freddy must call on them as

soon as they arrived. Indeed, so ample was the Muse’s equipment that

she permitted Mr. Harris, never a very robust criminal, to droop his

head, to be forgotten, and to die.



Lucy—to descend from bright heaven to earth, whereon there are shadows

because there are hills—Lucy was at first plunged into despair, but

settled after a little thought that it did not matter the very least.

Now that she was engaged, the Emersons would scarcely insult her and

were welcome into the neighbourhood. And Cecil was welcome to bring

whom he would into the neighbourhood. Therefore Cecil was welcome to

bring the Emersons into the neighbourhood. But, as I say, this took a

little thinking, and—so illogical are girls—the event remained rather

greater and rather more dreadful than it should have done. She was glad

that a visit to Mrs. Vyse now fell due; the tenants moved into Cissie

Villa while she was safe in the London flat.



“Cecil—Cecil darling,” she whispered the evening she arrived, and crept

into his arms.



Cecil, too, became demonstrative. He saw that the needful fire had been

kindled in Lucy. At last she longed for attention, as a woman should,

and looked up to him because he was a man.



“So you do love me, little thing?” he murmured.



“Oh, Cecil, I do, I do! I don’t know what I should do without you.”



Several days passed. Then she had a letter from Miss Bartlett. A

coolness had sprung up between the two cousins, and they had not

corresponded since they parted in August. The coolness dated from what

Charlotte would call “the flight to Rome,” and in Rome it had increased

amazingly. For the companion who is merely uncongenial in the mediaeval

world becomes exasperating in the classical. Charlotte, unselfish in

the Forum, would have tried a sweeter temper than Lucy’s, and once, in

the Baths of Caracalla, they had doubted whether they could continue

their tour. Lucy had said she would join the Vyses—Mrs. Vyse was an

acquaintance of her mother, so there was no impropriety in the plan and

Miss Bartlett had replied that she was quite used to being abandoned

suddenly. Finally nothing happened; but the coolness remained, and, for

Lucy, was even increased when she opened the letter and read as

follows. It had been forwarded from Windy Corner.



“TUNBRIDGE WELLS,

“_September_.





“DEAREST LUCIA,





“I have news of you at last! Miss Lavish has been bicycling in your

parts, but was not sure whether a call would be welcome. Puncturing her

tire near Summer Street, and it being mended while she sat very

woebegone in that pretty churchyard, she saw to her astonishment, a

door open opposite and the younger Emerson man come out. He said his

father had just taken the house. He _said_ he did not know that you

lived in the neighbourhood (?). He never suggested giving Eleanor a cup

of tea. Dear Lucy, I am much worried, and I advise you to make a clean

breast of his past behaviour to your mother, Freddy, and Mr. Vyse, who

will forbid him to enter the house, etc. That was a great misfortune,

and I dare say you have told them already. Mr. Vyse is so sensitive. I

remember how I used to get on his nerves at Rome. I am very sorry about

it all, and should not feel easy unless I warned you.





“Believe me,

“Your anxious and loving cousin,

“CHARLOTTE.”





Lucy was much annoyed, and replied as follows:



“BEAUCHAMP MANSIONS, S.W.









“DEAR CHARLOTTE,



“Many thanks for your warning. When Mr. Emerson forgot himself on the

mountain, you made me promise not to tell mother, because you said she

would blame you for not being always with me. I have kept that promise,

and cannot possibly tell her now. I have said both to her and Cecil

that I met the Emersons at Florence, and that they are respectable

people—which I _do_ think—and the reason that he offered Miss Lavish no

tea was probably that he had none himself. She should have tried at the

Rectory. I cannot begin making a fuss at this stage. You must see that

it would be too absurd. If the Emersons heard I had complained of them,

they would think themselves of importance, which is exactly what they

are not. I like the old father, and look forward to seeing him again.

As for the son, I am sorry for _him_ when we meet, rather than for

myself. They are known to Cecil, who is very well and spoke of you the

other day. We expect to be married in January.



“Miss Lavish cannot have told you much about me, for I am not at Windy

Corner at all, but here. Please do not put ‘Private’ outside your

envelope again. No one opens my letters.





“Yours affectionately,

“L. M. HONEYCHURCH.”





Secrecy has this disadvantage: we lose the sense of proportion; we

cannot tell whether our secret is important or not. Were Lucy and her

cousin closeted with a great thing which would destroy Cecil’s life if

he discovered it, or with a little thing which he would laugh at? Miss

Bartlett suggested the former. Perhaps she was right. It had become a

great thing now. Left to herself, Lucy would have told her mother and

her lover ingenuously, and it would have remained a little thing.

“Emerson, not Harris”; it was only that a few weeks ago. She tried to

tell Cecil even now when they were laughing about some beautiful lady

who had smitten his heart at school. But her body behaved so

ridiculously that she stopped.



She and her secret stayed ten days longer in the deserted Metropolis

visiting the scenes they were to know so well later on. It did her no

harm, Cecil thought, to learn the framework of society, while society

itself was absent on the golf-links or the moors. The weather was cool,

and it did her no harm. In spite of the season, Mrs. Vyse managed to

scrape together a dinner-party consisting entirely of the grandchildren

of famous people. The food was poor, but the talk had a witty weariness

that impressed the girl. One was tired of everything, it seemed. One

launched into enthusiasms only to collapse gracefully, and pick oneself

up amid sympathetic laughter. In this atmosphere the Pension Bertolini

and Windy Corner appeared equally crude, and Lucy saw that her London

career would estrange her a little from all that she had loved in the

past.



The grandchildren asked her to play the piano.



She played Schumann. “Now some Beethoven” called Cecil, when the

querulous beauty of the music had died. She shook her head and played

Schumann again. The melody rose, unprofitably magical. It broke; it was

resumed broken, not marching once from the cradle to the grave. The

sadness of the incomplete—the sadness that is often Life, but should

never be Art—throbbed in its disjected phrases, and made the nerves of

the audience throb. Not thus had she played on the little draped piano

at the Bertolini, and “Too much Schumann” was not the remark that Mr.

Beebe had passed to himself when she returned.



When the guests were gone, and Lucy had gone to bed, Mrs. Vyse paced up

and down the drawing-room, discussing her little party with her son.

Mrs. Vyse was a nice woman, but her personality, like many another’s,

had been swamped by London, for it needs a strong head to live among

many people. The too vast orb of her fate had crushed her; and she had

seen too many seasons, too many cities, too many men, for her

abilities, and even with Cecil she was mechanical, and behaved as if he

was not one son, but, so to speak, a filial crowd.



“Make Lucy one of us,” she said, looking round intelligently at the end

of each sentence, and straining her lips apart until she spoke again.

“Lucy is becoming wonderful—wonderful.”



“Her music always was wonderful.”



“Yes, but she is purging off the Honeychurch taint, most excellent

Honeychurches, but you know what I mean. She is not always quoting

servants, or asking one how the pudding is made.”



“Italy has done it.”



“Perhaps,” she murmured, thinking of the museum that represented Italy

to her. “It is just possible. Cecil, mind you marry her next January.

She is one of us already.”



“But her music!” he exclaimed. “The style of her! How she kept to

Schumann when, like an idiot, I wanted Beethoven. Schumann was right

for this evening. Schumann was the thing. Do you know, mother, I shall

have our children educated just like Lucy. Bring them up among honest

country folks for freshness, send them to Italy for subtlety, and

then—not till then—let them come to London. I don’t believe in these

London educations—” He broke off, remembering that he had had one

himself, and concluded, “At all events, not for women.”



“Make her one of us,” repeated Mrs. Vyse, and processed to bed.



As she was dozing off, a cry—the cry of nightmare—rang from Lucy’s

room. Lucy could ring for the maid if she liked but Mrs. Vyse thought

it kind to go herself. She found the girl sitting upright with her hand

on her cheek.



“I am so sorry, Mrs. Vyse—it is these dreams.”



“Bad dreams?”



“Just dreams.”



The elder lady smiled and kissed her, saying very distinctly: “You

should have heard us talking about you, dear. He admires you more than

ever. Dream of that.”



Lucy returned the kiss, still covering one cheek with her hand. Mrs.

Vyse recessed to bed. Cecil, whom the cry had not awoke, snored.

Darkness enveloped the flat.









Chapter XII

Twelfth Chapter





It was a Saturday afternoon, gay and brilliant after abundant rains,

and the spirit of youth dwelt in it, though the season was now autumn.

All that was gracious triumphed. As the motorcars passed through Summer

Street they raised only a little dust, and their stench was soon

dispersed by the wind and replaced by the scent of the wet birches or

of the pines. Mr. Beebe, at leisure for life’s amenities, leant over

his Rectory gate. Freddy leant by him, smoking a pendant pipe.



“Suppose we go and hinder those new people opposite for a little.”



“M’m.”



“They might amuse you.”



Freddy, whom his fellow-creatures never amused, suggested that the new

people might be feeling a bit busy, and so on, since they had only just

moved in.



“I suggested we should hinder them,” said Mr. Beebe. “They are worth

it.” Unlatching the gate, he sauntered over the triangular green to

Cissie Villa. “Hullo!” he cried, shouting in at the open door, through

which much squalor was visible.



A grave voice replied, “Hullo!”



“I’ve brought someone to see you.”



“I’ll be down in a minute.”



The passage was blocked by a wardrobe, which the removal men had failed

to carry up the stairs. Mr. Beebe edged round it with difficulty. The

sitting-room itself was blocked with books.



“Are these people great readers?” Freddy whispered. “Are they that

sort?”



“I fancy they know how to read—a rare accomplishment. What have they

got? Byron. Exactly. A Shropshire Lad. Never heard of it. The Way of

All Flesh. Never heard of it. Gibbon. Hullo! dear George reads German.

Um—um—Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, and so we go on. Well, I suppose your

generation knows its own business, Honeychurch.”



“Mr. Beebe, look at that,” said Freddy in awestruck tones.



On the cornice of the wardrobe, the hand of an amateur had painted this

inscription: “Mistrust all enterprises that require new clothes.”



“I know. Isn’t it jolly? I like that. I’m certain that’s the old man’s

doing.”



“How very odd of him!”



“Surely you agree?”



But Freddy was his mother’s son and felt that one ought not to go on

spoiling the furniture.



“Pictures!” the clergyman continued, scrambling about the room.

“Giotto—they got that at Florence, I’ll be bound.”



“The same as Lucy’s got.”



“Oh, by-the-by, did Miss Honeychurch enjoy London?”



“She came back yesterday.”



“I suppose she had a good time?”



“Yes, very,” said Freddy, taking up a book. “She and Cecil are thicker

than ever.”



“That’s good hearing.”



“I wish I wasn’t such a fool, Mr. Beebe.”



Mr. Beebe ignored the remark.



“Lucy used to be nearly as stupid as I am, but it’ll be very different

now, mother thinks. She will read all kinds of books.”



“So will you.”



“Only medical books. Not books that you can talk about afterwards.

Cecil is teaching Lucy Italian, and he says her playing is wonderful.

There are all kinds of things in it that we have never noticed. Cecil

says—”



“What on earth are those people doing upstairs? Emerson—we think we’ll

come another time.”



George ran down-stairs and pushed them into the room without speaking.



“Let me introduce Mr. Honeychurch, a neighbour.”



Then Freddy hurled one of the thunderbolts of youth. Perhaps he was

shy, perhaps he was friendly, or perhaps he thought that George’s face

wanted washing. At all events he greeted him with, “How d’ye do? Come

and have a bathe.”



“Oh, all right,” said George, impassive.



Mr. Beebe was highly entertained.



“‘How d’ye do? how d’ye do? Come and have a bathe,’” he chuckled.

“That’s the best conversational opening I’ve ever heard. But I’m afraid

it will only act between men. Can you picture a lady who has been

introduced to another lady by a third lady opening civilities with ‘How

do you do? Come and have a bathe’? And yet you will tell me that the

sexes are equal.”



“I tell you that they shall be,” said Mr. Emerson, who had been slowly

descending the stairs. “Good afternoon, Mr. Beebe. I tell you they

shall be comrades, and George thinks the same.”



“We are to raise ladies to our level?” the clergyman inquired.



“The Garden of Eden,” pursued Mr. Emerson, still descending, “which you

place in the past, is really yet to come. We shall enter it when we no

longer despise our bodies.”



Mr. Beebe disclaimed placing the Garden of Eden anywhere.



“In this—not in other things—we men are ahead. We despise the body less

than women do. But not until we are comrades shall we enter the

garden.”



“I say, what about this bathe?” murmured Freddy, appalled at the mass

of philosophy that was approaching him.



“I believed in a return to Nature once. But how can we return to Nature

when we have never been with her? To-day, I believe that we must

discover Nature. After many conquests we shall attain simplicity. It is

our heritage.”



“Let me introduce Mr. Honeychurch, whose sister you will remember at

Florence.”



“How do you do? Very glad to see you, and that you are taking George

for a bathe. Very glad to hear that your sister is going to marry.

Marriage is a duty. I am sure that she will be happy, for we know Mr.

Vyse, too. He has been most kind. He met us by chance in the National

Gallery, and arranged everything about this delightful house. Though I

hope I have not vexed Sir Harry Otway. I have met so few Liberal

landowners, and I was anxious to compare his attitude towards the game

laws with the Conservative attitude. Ah, this wind! You do well to

bathe. Yours is a glorious country, Honeychurch!”



“Not a bit!” mumbled Freddy. “I must—that is to say, I have to—have the

pleasure of calling on you later on, my mother says, I hope.”



“_Call_, my lad? Who taught us that drawing-room twaddle? Call on your

grandmother! Listen to the wind among the pines! Yours is a glorious

country.”



Mr. Beebe came to the rescue.



“Mr. Emerson, he will call, I shall call; you or your son will return

our calls before ten days have elapsed. I trust that you have realized

about the ten days’ interval. It does not count that I helped you with

the stair-eyes yesterday. It does not count that they are going to

bathe this afternoon.”



“Yes, go and bathe, George. Why do you dawdle talking? Bring them back

to tea. Bring back some milk, cakes, honey. The change will do you

good. George has been working very hard at his office. I can’t believe

he’s well.”



George bowed his head, dusty and sombre, exhaling the peculiar smell of

one who has handled furniture.



“Do you really want this bathe?” Freddy asked him. “It is only a pond,

don’t you know. I dare say you are used to something better.”



“Yes—I have said ‘Yes’ already.”



Mr. Beebe felt bound to assist his young friend, and led the way out of

the house and into the pine-woods. How glorious it was! For a little

time the voice of old Mr. Emerson pursued them dispensing good wishes

and philosophy. It ceased, and they only heard the fair wind blowing

the bracken and the trees. Mr. Beebe, who could be silent, but who

could not bear silence, was compelled to chatter, since the expedition

looked like a failure, and neither of his companions would utter a

word. He spoke of Florence. George attended gravely, assenting or

dissenting with slight but determined gestures that were as

inexplicable as the motions of the tree-tops above their heads.



“And what a coincidence that you should meet Mr. Vyse! Did you realize

that you would find all the Pension Bertolini down here?”



“I did not. Miss Lavish told me.”



“When I was a young man, I always meant to write a ‘History of

Coincidence.’”



No enthusiasm.



“Though, as a matter of fact, coincidences are much rarer than we

suppose. For example, it isn’t purely coincidentally that you are here

now, when one comes to reflect.”



To his relief, George began to talk.



“It is. I have reflected. It is Fate. Everything is Fate. We are flung

together by Fate, drawn apart by Fate—flung together, drawn apart. The

twelve winds blow us—we settle nothing—”



“You have not reflected at all,” rapped the clergyman. “Let me give you

a useful tip, Emerson: attribute nothing to Fate. Don’t say, ‘I didn’t

do this,’ for you did it, ten to one. Now I’ll cross-question you.

Where did you first meet Miss Honeychurch and myself?”



“Italy.”



“And where did you meet Mr. Vyse, who is going to marry Miss

Honeychurch?”



“National Gallery.”



“Looking at Italian art. There you are, and yet you talk of coincidence

and Fate. You naturally seek out things Italian, and so do we and our

friends. This narrows the field immeasurably we meet again in it.”



“It is Fate that I am here,” persisted George. “But you can call it

Italy if it makes you less unhappy.”



Mr. Beebe slid away from such heavy treatment of the subject. But he

was infinitely tolerant of the young, and had no desire to snub George.



“And so for this and for other reasons my ‘History of Coincidence’ is

still to write.”



Silence.



Wishing to round off the episode, he added; “We are all so glad that

you have come.”



Silence.



“Here we are!” called Freddy.



“Oh, good!” exclaimed Mr. Beebe, mopping his brow.



“In there’s the pond. I wish it was bigger,” he added apologetically.



They climbed down a slippery bank of pine-needles. There lay the pond,

set in its little alp of green—only a pond, but large enough to contain

the human body, and pure enough to reflect the sky. On account of the

rains, the waters had flooded the surrounding grass, which showed like

a beautiful emerald path, tempting these feet towards the central pool.



“It’s distinctly successful, as ponds go,” said Mr. Beebe. “No

apologies are necessary for the pond.”



George sat down where the ground was dry, and drearily unlaced his

boots.



“Aren’t those masses of willow-herb splendid? I love willow-herb in

seed. What’s the name of this aromatic plant?”



No one knew, or seemed to care.



“These abrupt changes of vegetation—this little spongeous tract of

water plants, and on either side of it all the growths are tough or

brittle—heather, bracken, hurts, pines. Very charming, very charming.”



“Mr. Beebe, aren’t you bathing?” called Freddy, as he stripped himself.



Mr. Beebe thought he was not.



“Water’s wonderful!” cried Freddy, prancing in.



“Water’s water,” murmured George. Wetting his hair first—a sure sign of

apathy—he followed Freddy into the divine, as indifferent as if he were

a statue and the pond a pail of soapsuds. It was necessary to use his

muscles. It was necessary to keep clean. Mr. Beebe watched them, and

watched the seeds of the willow-herb dance chorically above their

heads.



“Apooshoo, apooshoo, apooshoo,” went Freddy, swimming for two strokes

in either direction, and then becoming involved in reeds or mud.



“Is it worth it?” asked the other, Michelangelesque on the flooded

margin.



The bank broke away, and he fell into the pool before he had weighed

the question properly.



“Hee-poof—I’ve swallowed a pollywog, Mr. Beebe, water’s wonderful,

water’s simply ripping.”



“Water’s not so bad,” said George, reappearing from his plunge, and

sputtering at the sun.



“Water’s wonderful. Mr. Beebe, do.”



“Apooshoo, kouf.”



Mr. Beebe, who was hot, and who always acquiesced where possible,

looked around him. He could detect no parishioners except the

pine-trees, rising up steeply on all sides, and gesturing to each other

against the blue. How glorious it was! The world of motor-cars and

rural Deans receded inimitably. Water, sky, evergreens, a wind—these

things not even the seasons can touch, and surely they lie beyond the

intrusion of man?



“I may as well wash too”; and soon his garments made a third little

pile on the sward, and he too asserted the wonder of the water.



It was ordinary water, nor was there very much of it, and, as Freddy

said, it reminded one of swimming in a salad. The three gentlemen

rotated in the pool breast high, after the fashion of the nymphs in

Götterdämmerung. But either because the rains had given a freshness or

because the sun was shedding a most glorious heat, or because two of

the gentlemen were young in years and the third young in spirit—for

some reason or other a change came over them, and they forgot Italy and

Botany and Fate. They began to play. Mr. Beebe and Freddy splashed each

other. A little deferentially, they splashed George. He was quiet: they

feared they had offended him. Then all the forces of youth burst out.

He smiled, flung himself at them, splashed them, ducked them, kicked

them, muddied them, and drove them out of the pool.



“Race you round it, then,” cried Freddy, and they raced in the

sunshine, and George took a short cut and dirtied his shins, and had to

bathe a second time. Then Mr. Beebe consented to run—a memorable sight.



They ran to get dry, they bathed to get cool, they played at being

Indians in the willow-herbs and in the bracken, they bathed to get

clean. And all the time three little bundles lay discreetly on the

sward, proclaiming:



“No. We are what matters. Without us shall no enterprise begin. To us

shall all flesh turn in the end.”



“A try! A try!” yelled Freddy, snatching up George’s bundle and placing

it beside an imaginary goal-post.



“Socker rules,” George retorted, scattering Freddy’s bundle with a

kick.



“Goal!”



“Goal!”



“Pass!”



“Take care my watch!” cried Mr. Beebe.



Clothes flew in all directions.



“Take care my hat! No, that’s enough, Freddy. Dress now. No, I say!”



But the two young men were delirious. Away they twinkled into the

trees, Freddy with a clerical waistcoat under his arm, George with a

wide-awake hat on his dripping hair.



“That’ll do!” shouted Mr. Beebe, remembering that after all he was in

his own parish. Then his voice changed as if every pine-tree was a

Rural Dean. “Hi! Steady on! I see people coming you fellows!”



Yells, and widening circles over the dappled earth.



“Hi! hi! _Ladies!_”



Neither George nor Freddy was truly refined. Still, they did not hear

Mr. Beebe’s last warning or they would have avoided Mrs. Honeychurch,

Cecil, and Lucy, who were walking down to call on old Mrs. Butterworth.

Freddy dropped the waistcoat at their feet, and dashed into some

bracken. George whooped in their faces, turned and scudded away down

the path to the pond, still clad in Mr. Beebe’s hat.



“Gracious alive!” cried Mrs. Honeychurch. “Whoever were those

unfortunate people? Oh, dears, look away! And poor Mr. Beebe, too!

Whatever has happened?”



“Come this way immediately,” commanded Cecil, who always felt that he

must lead women, though he knew not whither, and protect them, though

he knew not against what. He led them now towards the bracken where

Freddy sat concealed.



“Oh, poor Mr. Beebe! Was that his waistcoat we left in the path? Cecil,

Mr. Beebe’s waistcoat—”



No business of ours, said Cecil, glancing at Lucy, who was all parasol

and evidently “minded.”



“I fancy Mr. Beebe jumped back into the pond.”



“This way, please, Mrs. Honeychurch, this way.”



They followed him up the bank attempting the tense yet nonchalant

expression that is suitable for ladies on such occasions.



“Well, _I_ can’t help it,” said a voice close ahead, and Freddy reared

a freckled face and a pair of snowy shoulders out of the fronds. “I

can’t be trodden on, can I?”



“Good gracious me, dear; so it’s you! What miserable management! Why

not have a comfortable bath at home, with hot and cold laid on?”



“Look here, mother, a fellow must wash, and a fellow’s got to dry, and

if another fellow—”



“Dear, no doubt you’re right as usual, but you are in no position to

argue. Come, Lucy.” They turned. “Oh, look—don’t look! Oh, poor Mr.

Beebe! How unfortunate again—”



For Mr. Beebe was just crawling out of the pond, on whose surface

garments of an intimate nature did float; while George, the world-weary

George, shouted to Freddy that he had hooked a fish.



“And me, I’ve swallowed one,” answered he of the bracken. “I’ve

swallowed a pollywog. It wriggleth in my tummy. I shall die—Emerson you

beast, you’ve got on my bags.”



“Hush, dears,” said Mrs. Honeychurch, who found it impossible to remain

shocked. “And do be sure you dry yourselves thoroughly first. All these

colds come of not drying thoroughly.”



“Mother, do come away,” said Lucy. “Oh for goodness’ sake, do come.”



“Hullo!” cried George, so that again the ladies stopped.



He regarded himself as dressed. Barefoot, bare-chested, radiant and

personable against the shadowy woods, he called:



“Hullo, Miss Honeychurch! Hullo!”



“Bow, Lucy; better bow. Whoever is it? I shall bow.”



Miss Honeychurch bowed.



That evening and all that night the water ran away. On the morrow the

pool had shrunk to its old size and lost its glory. It had been a call

to the blood and to the relaxed will, a passing benediction whose

influence did not pass, a holiness, a spell, a momentary chalice for

youth.









Chapter XIII

How Miss Bartlett’s Boiler Was So Tiresome





How often had Lucy rehearsed this bow, this interview! But she had

always rehearsed them indoors, and with certain accessories, which

surely we have a right to assume. Who could foretell that she and

George would meet in the rout of a civilization, amidst an army of

coats and collars and boots that lay wounded over the sunlit earth? She

had imagined a young Mr. Emerson, who might be shy or morbid or

indifferent or furtively impudent. She was prepared for all of these.

But she had never imagined one who would be happy and greet her with

the shout of the morning star.



Indoors herself, partaking of tea with old Mrs. Butterworth, she

reflected that it is impossible to foretell the future with any degree

of accuracy, that it is impossible to rehearse life. A fault in the

scenery, a face in the audience, an irruption of the audience on to the

stage, and all our carefully planned gestures mean nothing, or mean too

much. “I will bow,” she had thought. “I will not shake hands with him.

That will be just the proper thing.” She had bowed—but to whom? To

gods, to heroes, to the nonsense of school-girls! She had bowed across

the rubbish that cumbers the world.



So ran her thoughts, while her faculties were busy with Cecil. It was

another of those dreadful engagement calls. Mrs. Butterworth had wanted

to see him, and he did not want to be seen. He did not want to hear

about hydrangeas, why they change their colour at the seaside. He did

not want to join the C. O. S. When cross he was always elaborate, and

made long, clever answers where “Yes” or “No” would have done. Lucy

soothed him and tinkered at the conversation in a way that promised

well for their married peace. No one is perfect, and surely it is wiser

to discover the imperfections before wedlock. Miss Bartlett, indeed,

though not in word, had taught the girl that this our life contains

nothing satisfactory. Lucy, though she disliked the teacher, regarded

the teaching as profound, and applied it to her lover.



“Lucy,” said her mother, when they got home, “is anything the matter

with Cecil?”



The question was ominous; up till now Mrs. Honeychurch had behaved with

charity and restraint.



“No, I don’t think so, mother; Cecil’s all right.”



“Perhaps he’s tired.”



Lucy compromised: perhaps Cecil was a little tired.



“Because otherwise”—she pulled out her bonnet-pins with gathering

displeasure—“because otherwise I cannot account for him.”



“I do think Mrs. Butterworth is rather tiresome, if you mean that.”



“Cecil has told you to think so. You were devoted to her as a little

girl, and nothing will describe her goodness to you through the typhoid

fever. No—it is just the same thing everywhere.”



“Let me just put your bonnet away, may I?”



“Surely he could answer her civilly for one half-hour?”



“Cecil has a very high standard for people,” faltered Lucy, seeing

trouble ahead. “It’s part of his ideals—it is really that that makes

him sometimes seem—”



“Oh, rubbish! If high ideals make a young man rude, the sooner he gets

rid of them the better,” said Mrs. Honeychurch, handing her the bonnet.



“Now, mother! I’ve seen you cross with Mrs. Butterworth yourself!”



“Not in that way. At times I could wring her neck. But not in that way.

No. It is the same with Cecil all over.”



“By-the-by—I never told you. I had a letter from Charlotte while I was

away in London.”



This attempt to divert the conversation was too puerile, and Mrs.

Honeychurch resented it.



“Since Cecil came back from London, nothing appears to please him.

Whenever I speak he winces;—I see him, Lucy; it is useless to

contradict me. No doubt I am neither artistic nor literary nor

intellectual nor musical, but I cannot help the drawing-room furniture;

your father bought it and we must put up with it, will Cecil kindly

remember.”



“I—I see what you mean, and certainly Cecil oughtn’t to. But he does

not mean to be uncivil—he once explained—it is the _things_ that upset

him—he is easily upset by ugly things—he is not uncivil to _people_.”



“Is it a thing or a person when Freddy sings?”



“You can’t expect a really musical person to enjoy comic songs as we

do.”



“Then why didn’t he leave the room? Why sit wriggling and sneering and

spoiling everyone’s pleasure?”



“We mustn’t be unjust to people,” faltered Lucy. Something had

enfeebled her, and the case for Cecil, which she had mastered so

perfectly in London, would not come forth in an effective form. The two

civilizations had clashed—Cecil hinted that they might—and she was

dazzled and bewildered, as though the radiance that lies behind all

civilization had blinded her eyes. Good taste and bad taste were only

catchwords, garments of diverse cut; and music itself dissolved to a

whisper through pine-trees, where the song is not distinguishable from

the comic song.



She remained in much embarrassment, while Mrs. Honeychurch changed her

frock for dinner; and every now and then she said a word, and made

things no better. There was no concealing the fact, Cecil had meant to

be supercilious, and he had succeeded. And Lucy—she knew not why—wished

that the trouble could have come at any other time.



“Go and dress, dear; you’ll be late.”



“All right, mother—”



“Don’t say ‘All right’ and stop. Go.”



She obeyed, but loitered disconsolately at the landing window. It faced

north, so there was little view, and no view of the sky. Now, as in the

winter, the pine-trees hung close to her eyes. One connected the

landing window with depression. No definite problem menaced her, but

she sighed to herself, “Oh, dear, what shall I do, what shall I do?” It

seemed to her that everyone else was behaving very badly. And she ought

not to have mentioned Miss Bartlett’s letter. She must be more careful;

her mother was rather inquisitive, and might have asked what it was

about. Oh, dear, what should she do?—and then Freddy came bounding

upstairs, and joined the ranks of the ill-behaved.



“I say, those are topping people.”



“My dear baby, how tiresome you’ve been! You have no business to take

them bathing in the Sacred Lake; it’s much too public. It was all right

for you but most awkward for everyone else. Do be more careful. You

forget the place is growing half suburban.”



“I say, is anything on to-morrow week?”



“Not that I know of.”



“Then I want to ask the Emersons up to Sunday tennis.”



“Oh, I wouldn’t do that, Freddy, I wouldn’t do that with all this

muddle.”



“What’s wrong with the court? They won’t mind a bump or two, and I’ve

ordered new balls.”



“I meant _it’s_ better not. I really mean it.”



He seized her by the elbows and humorously danced her up and down the

passage. She pretended not to mind, but she could have screamed with

temper. Cecil glanced at them as he proceeded to his toilet and they

impeded Mary with her brood of hot-water cans. Then Mrs. Honeychurch

opened her door and said: “Lucy, what a noise you’re making! I have

something to say to you. Did you say you had had a letter from

Charlotte?” and Freddy ran away.



“Yes. I really can’t stop. I must dress too.”



“How’s Charlotte?”



“All right.”



“Lucy!”



The unfortunate girl returned.



“You’ve a bad habit of hurrying away in the middle of one’s sentences.

Did Charlotte mention her boiler?”



“Her _what?_”



“Don’t you remember that her boiler was to be had out in October, and

her bath cistern cleaned out, and all kinds of terrible to-doings?”



“I can’t remember all Charlotte’s worries,” said Lucy bitterly. “I

shall have enough of my own, now that you are not pleased with Cecil.”



Mrs. Honeychurch might have flamed out. She did not. She said: “Come

here, old lady—thank you for putting away my bonnet—kiss me.” And,

though nothing is perfect, Lucy felt for the moment that her mother and

Windy Corner and the Weald in the declining sun were perfect.



So the grittiness went out of life. It generally did at Windy Corner.

At the last minute, when the social machine was clogged hopelessly, one

member or other of the family poured in a drop of oil. Cecil despised

their methods—perhaps rightly. At all events, they were not his own.



Dinner was at half-past seven. Freddy gabbled the grace, and they drew

up their heavy chairs and fell to. Fortunately, the men were hungry.

Nothing untoward occurred until the pudding. Then Freddy said:



“Lucy, what’s Emerson like?”



“I saw him in Florence,” said Lucy, hoping that this would pass for a

reply.



“Is he the clever sort, or is he a decent chap?”



“Ask Cecil; it is Cecil who brought him here.”



“He is the clever sort, like myself,” said Cecil.



Freddy looked at him doubtfully.



“How well did you know them at the Bertolini?” asked Mrs. Honeychurch.



“Oh, very slightly. I mean, Charlotte knew them even less than I did.”



“Oh, that reminds me—you never told me what Charlotte said in her

letter.”



“One thing and another,” said Lucy, wondering whether she would get

through the meal without a lie. “Among other things, that an awful

friend of hers had been bicycling through Summer Street, wondered if

she’d come up and see us, and mercifully didn’t.”



“Lucy, I do call the way you talk unkind.”



“She was a novelist,” said Lucy craftily. The remark was a happy one,

for nothing roused Mrs. Honeychurch so much as literature in the hands

of females. She would abandon every topic to inveigh against those

women who (instead of minding their houses and their children) seek

notoriety by print. Her attitude was: “If books must be written, let

them be written by men”; and she developed it at great length, while

Cecil yawned and Freddy played at “This year, next year, now, never,”

with his plum-stones, and Lucy artfully fed the flames of her mother’s

wrath. But soon the conflagration died down, and the ghosts began to

gather in the darkness. There were too many ghosts about. The original

ghost—that touch of lips on her cheek—had surely been laid long ago; it

could be nothing to her that a man had kissed her on a mountain once.

But it had begotten a spectral family—Mr. Harris, Miss Bartlett’s

letter, Mr. Beebe’s memories of violets—and one or other of these was

bound to haunt her before Cecil’s very eyes. It was Miss Bartlett who

returned now, and with appalling vividness.



“I have been thinking, Lucy, of that letter of Charlotte’s. How is

she?”



“I tore the thing up.”



“Didn’t she say how she was? How does she sound? Cheerful?”



“Oh, yes I suppose so—no—not very cheerful, I suppose.”



“Then, depend upon it, it _is_ the boiler. I know myself how water

preys upon one’s mind. I would rather anything else—even a misfortune

with the meat.”



Cecil laid his hand over his eyes.



“So would I,” asserted Freddy, backing his mother up—backing up the

spirit of her remark rather than the substance.



“And I have been thinking,” she added rather nervously, “surely we

could squeeze Charlotte in here next week, and give her a nice holiday

while the plumbers at Tunbridge Wells finish. I have not seen poor

Charlotte for so long.”



It was more than her nerves could stand. And she could not protest

violently after her mother’s goodness to her upstairs.



“Mother, no!” she pleaded. “It’s impossible. We can’t have Charlotte on

the top of the other things; we’re squeezed to death as it is. Freddy’s

got a friend coming Tuesday, there’s Cecil, and you’ve promised to take

in Minnie Beebe because of the diphtheria scare. It simply can’t be

done.”



“Nonsense! It can.”



“If Minnie sleeps in the bath. Not otherwise.”



“Minnie can sleep with you.”



“I won’t have her.”



“Then, if you’re so selfish, Mr. Floyd must share a room with Freddy.”



“Miss Bartlett, Miss Bartlett, Miss Bartlett,” moaned Cecil, again

laying his hand over his eyes.



“It’s impossible,” repeated Lucy. “I don’t want to make difficulties,

but it really isn’t fair on the maids to fill up the house so.”



Alas!



“The truth is, dear, you don’t like Charlotte.”



“No, I don’t. And no more does Cecil. She gets on our nerves. You

haven’t seen her lately, and don’t realize how tiresome she can be,

though so good. So please, mother, don’t worry us this last summer; but

spoil us by not asking her to come.”



“Hear, hear!” said Cecil.



Mrs. Honeychurch, with more gravity than usual, and with more feeling

than she usually permitted herself, replied: “This isn’t very kind of

you two. You have each other and all these woods to walk in, so full of

beautiful things; and poor Charlotte has only the water turned off and

plumbers. You are young, dears, and however clever young people are,

and however many books they read, they will never guess what it feels

like to grow old.”



Cecil crumbled his bread.



“I must say Cousin Charlotte was very kind to me that year I called on

my bike,” put in Freddy. “She thanked me for coming till I felt like

such a fool, and fussed round no end to get an egg boiled for my tea

just right.”



“I know, dear. She is kind to everyone, and yet Lucy makes this

difficulty when we try to give her some little return.”



But Lucy hardened her heart. It was no good being kind to Miss

Bartlett. She had tried herself too often and too recently. One might

lay up treasure in heaven by the attempt, but one enriched neither Miss

Bartlett nor any one else upon earth. She was reduced to saying: “I

can’t help it, mother. I don’t like Charlotte. I admit it’s horrid of

me.”



“From your own account, you told her as much.”



“Well, she would leave Florence so stupidly. She flurried—”



The ghosts were returning; they filled Italy, they were even usurping

the places she had known as a child. The Sacred Lake would never be the

same again, and, on Sunday week, something would even happen to Windy

Corner. How would she fight against ghosts? For a moment the visible

world faded away, and memories and emotions alone seemed real.



“I suppose Miss Bartlett must come, since she boils eggs so well,” said

Cecil, who was in rather a happier frame of mind, thanks to the

admirable cooking.



“I didn’t mean the egg was _well_ boiled,” corrected Freddy, “because

in point of fact she forgot to take it off, and as a matter of fact I

don’t care for eggs. I only meant how jolly kind she seemed.”



Cecil frowned again. Oh, these Honeychurches! Eggs, boilers,

hydrangeas, maids—of such were their lives compact. “May me and Lucy

get down from our chairs?” he asked, with scarcely veiled insolence.

“We don’t want no dessert.”









Chapter XIV

How Lucy Faced the External Situation Bravely





Of course Miss Bartlett accepted. And, equally of course, she felt sure

that she would prove a nuisance, and begged to be given an inferior

spare room—something with no view, anything. Her love to Lucy. And,

equally of course, George Emerson could come to tennis on the Sunday

week.



Lucy faced the situation bravely, though, like most of us, she only

faced the situation that encompassed her. She never gazed inwards. If

at times strange images rose from the depths, she put them down to

nerves. When Cecil brought the Emersons to Summer Street, it had upset

her nerves. Charlotte would burnish up past foolishness, and this might

upset her nerves. She was nervous at night. When she talked to

George—they met again almost immediately at the Rectory—his voice moved

her deeply, and she wished to remain near him. How dreadful if she

really wished to remain near him! Of course, the wish was due to

nerves, which love to play such perverse tricks upon us. Once she had

suffered from “things that came out of nothing and meant she didn’t

know what.” Now Cecil had explained psychology to her one wet

afternoon, and all the troubles of youth in an unknown world could be

dismissed.



It is obvious enough for the reader to conclude, “She loves young

Emerson.” A reader in Lucy’s place would not find it obvious. Life is

easy to chronicle, but bewildering to practice, and we welcome “nerves”

or any other shibboleth that will cloak our personal desire. She loved

Cecil; George made her nervous; will the reader explain to her that the

phrases should have been reversed?



But the external situation—she will face that bravely.



The meeting at the Rectory had passed off well enough. Standing between

Mr. Beebe and Cecil, she had made a few temperate allusions to Italy,

and George had replied. She was anxious to show that she was not shy,

and was glad that he did not seem shy either.



“A nice fellow,” said Mr. Beebe afterwards “He will work off his

crudities in time. I rather mistrust young men who slip into life

gracefully.”



Lucy said, “He seems in better spirits. He laughs more.”



“Yes,” replied the clergyman. “He is waking up.”



That was all. But, as the week wore on, more of her defences fell, and

she entertained an image that had physical beauty. In spite of the

clearest directions, Miss Bartlett contrived to bungle her arrival. She

was due at the South-Eastern station at Dorking, whither Mrs.

Honeychurch drove to meet her. She arrived at the London and Brighton

station, and had to hire a cab up. No one was at home except Freddy and

his friend, who had to stop their tennis and to entertain her for a

solid hour. Cecil and Lucy turned up at four o’clock, and these, with

little Minnie Beebe, made a somewhat lugubrious sextette upon the upper

lawn for tea.



“I shall never forgive myself,” said Miss Bartlett, who kept on rising

from her seat, and had to be begged by the united company to remain. “I

have upset everything. Bursting in on young people! But I insist on

paying for my cab up. Grant that, at any rate.”



“Our visitors never do such dreadful things,” said Lucy, while her

brother, in whose memory the boiled egg had already grown

unsubstantial, exclaimed in irritable tones: “Just what I’ve been

trying to convince Cousin Charlotte of, Lucy, for the last half hour.”



“I do not feel myself an ordinary visitor,” said Miss Bartlett, and

looked at her frayed glove.



“All right, if you’d really rather. Five shillings, and I gave a bob to

the driver.”



Miss Bartlett looked in her purse. Only sovereigns and pennies. Could

any one give her change? Freddy had half a quid and his friend had four

half-crowns. Miss Bartlett accepted their moneys and then said: “But

who am I to give the sovereign to?”



“Let’s leave it all till mother comes back,” suggested Lucy.



“No, dear; your mother may take quite a long drive now that she is not

hampered with me. We all have our little foibles, and mine is the

prompt settling of accounts.”



Here Freddy’s friend, Mr. Floyd, made the one remark of his that need

be quoted: he offered to toss Freddy for Miss Bartlett’s quid. A

solution seemed in sight, and even Cecil, who had been ostentatiously

drinking his tea at the view, felt the eternal attraction of Chance,

and turned round.



But this did not do, either.



“Please—please—I know I am a sad spoil-sport, but it would make me

wretched. I should practically be robbing the one who lost.”



“Freddy owes me fifteen shillings,” interposed Cecil. “So it will work

out right if you give the pound to me.”



“Fifteen shillings,” said Miss Bartlett dubiously. “How is that, Mr.

Vyse?”



“Because, don’t you see, Freddy paid your cab. Give me the pound, and

we shall avoid this deplorable gambling.”



Miss Bartlett, who was poor at figures, became bewildered and rendered

up the sovereign, amidst the suppressed gurgles of the other youths.

For a moment Cecil was happy. He was playing at nonsense among his

peers. Then he glanced at Lucy, in whose face petty anxieties had

marred the smiles. In January he would rescue his Leonardo from this

stupefying twaddle.



“But I don’t see that!” exclaimed Minnie Beebe who had narrowly watched

the iniquitous transaction. “I don’t see why Mr. Vyse is to have the

quid.”



“Because of the fifteen shillings and the five,” they said solemnly.

“Fifteen shillings and five shillings make one pound, you see.”



“But I don’t see—”



They tried to stifle her with cake.



“No, thank you. I’m done. I don’t see why—Freddy, don’t poke me. Miss

Honeychurch, your brother’s hurting me. Ow! What about Mr. Floyd’s ten

shillings? Ow! No, I don’t see and I never shall see why Miss

What’s-her-name shouldn’t pay that bob for the driver.”



“I had forgotten the driver,” said Miss Bartlett, reddening. “Thank

you, dear, for reminding me. A shilling was it? Can any one give me

change for half a crown?”



“I’ll get it,” said the young hostess, rising with decision.



“Cecil, give me that sovereign. No, give me up that sovereign. I’ll get

Euphemia to change it, and we’ll start the whole thing again from the

beginning.”



“Lucy—Lucy—what a nuisance I am!” protested Miss Bartlett, and followed

her across the lawn. Lucy tripped ahead, simulating hilarity. When they

were out of earshot Miss Bartlett stopped her wails and said quite

briskly: “Have you told him about him yet?”



“No, I haven’t,” replied Lucy, and then could have bitten her tongue

for understanding so quickly what her cousin meant. “Let me see—a

sovereign’s worth of silver.”



She escaped into the kitchen. Miss Bartlett’s sudden transitions were

too uncanny. It sometimes seemed as if she planned every word she spoke

or caused to be spoken; as if all this worry about cabs and change had

been a ruse to surprise the soul.



“No, I haven’t told Cecil or any one,” she remarked, when she returned.

“I promised you I shouldn’t. Here is your money—all shillings, except

two half-crowns. Would you count it? You can settle your debt nicely

now.”



Miss Bartlett was in the drawing-room, gazing at the photograph of St.

John ascending, which had been framed.



“How dreadful!” she murmured, “how more than dreadful, if Mr. Vyse

should come to hear of it from some other source.”



“Oh, no, Charlotte,” said the girl, entering the battle. “George

Emerson is all right, and what other source is there?”



Miss Bartlett considered. “For instance, the driver. I saw him looking

through the bushes at you, remember he had a violet between his teeth.”



Lucy shuddered a little. “We shall get the silly affair on our nerves

if we aren’t careful. How could a Florentine cab-driver ever get hold

of Cecil?”



“We must think of every possibility.”



“Oh, it’s all right.”



“Or perhaps old Mr. Emerson knows. In fact, he is certain to know.”



“I don’t care if he does. I was grateful to you for your letter, but

even if the news does get round, I think I can trust Cecil to laugh at

it.”



“To contradict it?”



“No, to laugh at it.” But she knew in her heart that she could not

trust him, for he desired her untouched.



“Very well, dear, you know best. Perhaps gentlemen are different to

what they were when I was young. Ladies are certainly different.”



“Now, Charlotte!” She struck at her playfully. “You kind, anxious

thing. What _would_ you have me do? First you say ‘Don’t tell’; and

then you say, ‘Tell’. Which is it to be? Quick!”



Miss Bartlett sighed “I am no match for you in conversation, dearest. I

blush when I think how I interfered at Florence, and you so well able

to look after yourself, and so much cleverer in all ways than I am. You

will never forgive me.”



“Shall we go out, then. They will smash all the china if we don’t.”



For the air rang with the shrieks of Minnie, who was being scalped with

a teaspoon.



“Dear, one moment—we may not have this chance for a chat again. Have

you seen the young one yet?”



“Yes, I have.”



“What happened?”



“We met at the Rectory.”



“What line is he taking up?”



“No line. He talked about Italy, like any other person. It is really

all right. What advantage would he get from being a cad, to put it

bluntly? I do wish I could make you see it my way. He really won’t be

any nuisance, Charlotte.”



“Once a cad, always a cad. That is my poor opinion.”



Lucy paused. “Cecil said one day—and I thought it so profound—that

there are two kinds of cads—the conscious and the subconscious.” She

paused again, to be sure of doing justice to Cecil’s profundity.

Through the window she saw Cecil himself, turning over the pages of a

novel. It was a new one from Smith’s library. Her mother must have

returned from the station.



“Once a cad, always a cad,” droned Miss Bartlett.



“What I mean by subconscious is that Emerson lost his head. I fell into

all those violets, and he was silly and surprised. I don’t think we

ought to blame him very much. It makes such a difference when you see a

person with beautiful things behind him unexpectedly. It really does;

it makes an enormous difference, and he lost his head: he doesn’t

admire me, or any of that nonsense, one straw. Freddy rather likes him,

and has asked him up here on Sunday, so you can judge for yourself. He

has improved; he doesn’t always look as if he’s going to burst into

tears. He is a clerk in the General Manager’s office at one of the big

railways—not a porter! and runs down to his father for week-ends. Papa

was to do with journalism, but is rheumatic and has retired. There! Now

for the garden.” She took hold of her guest by the arm. “Suppose we

don’t talk about this silly Italian business any more. We want you to

have a nice restful visit at Windy Corner, with no worriting.”



Lucy thought this rather a good speech. The reader may have detected an

unfortunate slip in it. Whether Miss Bartlett detected the slip one

cannot say, for it is impossible to penetrate into the minds of elderly

people. She might have spoken further, but they were interrupted by the

entrance of her hostess. Explanations took place, and in the midst of

them Lucy escaped, the images throbbing a little more vividly in her

brain.









Chapter XV

The Disaster Within





The Sunday after Miss Bartlett’s arrival was a glorious day, like most

of the days of that year. In the Weald, autumn approached, breaking up

the green monotony of summer, touching the parks with the grey bloom of

mist, the beech-trees with russet, the oak-trees with gold. Up on the

heights, battalions of black pines witnessed the change, themselves

unchangeable. Either country was spanned by a cloudless sky, and in

either arose the tinkle of church bells.



The garden of Windy Corners was deserted except for a red book, which

lay sunning itself upon the gravel path. From the house came incoherent

sounds, as of females preparing for worship. “The men say they won’t

go”—“Well, I don’t blame them”—Minnie says, “need she go?”—“Tell her,

no nonsense”—“Anne! Mary! Hook me behind!”—“Dearest Lucia, may I

trespass upon you for a pin?” For Miss Bartlett had announced that she

at all events was one for church.



The sun rose higher on its journey, guided, not by Phaethon, but by

Apollo, competent, unswerving, divine. Its rays fell on the ladies

whenever they advanced towards the bedroom windows; on Mr. Beebe down

at Summer Street as he smiled over a letter from Miss Catharine Alan;

on George Emerson cleaning his father’s boots; and lastly, to complete

the catalogue of memorable things, on the red book mentioned

previously. The ladies move, Mr. Beebe moves, George moves, and

movement may engender shadow. But this book lies motionless, to be

caressed all the morning by the sun and to raise its covers slightly,

as though acknowledging the caress.



Presently Lucy steps out of the drawing-room window. Her new cerise

dress has been a failure, and makes her look tawdry and wan. At her

throat is a garnet brooch, on her finger a ring set with rubies—an

engagement ring. Her eyes are bent to the Weald. She frowns a

little—not in anger, but as a brave child frowns when he is trying not

to cry. In all that expanse no human eye is looking at her, and she may

frown unrebuked and measure the spaces that yet survive between Apollo

and the western hills.



“Lucy! Lucy! What’s that book? Who’s been taking a book out of the

shelf and leaving it about to spoil?”



“It’s only the library book that Cecil’s been reading.”



“But pick it up, and don’t stand idling there like a flamingo.”



Lucy picked up the book and glanced at the title listlessly, Under a

Loggia. She no longer read novels herself, devoting all her spare time

to solid literature in the hope of catching Cecil up. It was dreadful

how little she knew, and even when she thought she knew a thing, like

the Italian painters, she found she had forgotten it. Only this morning

she had confused Francesco Francia with Piero della Francesca, and

Cecil had said, “What! you aren’t forgetting your Italy already?” And

this too had lent anxiety to her eyes when she saluted the dear view

and the dear garden in the foreground, and above them, scarcely

conceivable elsewhere, the dear sun.



“Lucy—have you a sixpence for Minnie and a shilling for yourself?”



She hastened in to her mother, who was rapidly working herself into a

Sunday fluster.



“It’s a special collection—I forget what for. I do beg, no vulgar

clinking in the plate with halfpennies; see that Minnie has a nice

bright sixpence. Where is the child? Minnie! That book’s all warped.

(Gracious, how plain you look!) Put it under the Atlas to press.

Minnie!”



“Oh, Mrs. Honeychurch—” from the upper regions.



“Minnie, don’t be late. Here comes the horse”—it was always the horse,

never the carriage. “Where’s Charlotte? Run up and hurry her. Why is

she so long? She had nothing to do. She never brings anything but

blouses. Poor Charlotte—How I do detest blouses! Minnie!”



Paganism is infectious—more infectious than diphtheria or piety—and the

Rector’s niece was taken to church protesting. As usual, she didn’t see

why. Why shouldn’t she sit in the sun with the young men? The young

men, who had now appeared, mocked her with ungenerous words. Mrs.

Honeychurch defended orthodoxy, and in the midst of the confusion Miss

Bartlett, dressed in the very height of the fashion, came strolling

down the stairs.



“Dear Marian, I am very sorry, but I have no small change—nothing but

sovereigns and half crowns. Could any one give me—”



“Yes, easily. Jump in. Gracious me, how smart you look! What a lovely

frock! You put us all to shame.”



“If I did not wear my best rags and tatters now, when should I wear

them?” said Miss Bartlett reproachfully. She got into the victoria and

placed herself with her back to the horse. The necessary roar ensued,

and then they drove off.



“Good-bye! Be good!” called out Cecil.



Lucy bit her lip, for the tone was sneering. On the subject of “church

and so on” they had had rather an unsatisfactory conversation. He had

said that people ought to overhaul themselves, and she did not want to

overhaul herself; she did not know it was done. Honest orthodoxy Cecil

respected, but he always assumed that honesty is the result of a

spiritual crisis; he could not imagine it as a natural birthright, that

might grow heavenward like flowers. All that he said on this subject

pained her, though he exuded tolerance from every pore; somehow the

Emersons were different.



She saw the Emersons after church. There was a line of carriages down

the road, and the Honeychurch vehicle happened to be opposite Cissie

Villa. To save time, they walked over the green to it, and found father

and son smoking in the garden.



“Introduce me,” said her mother. “Unless the young man considers that

he knows me already.”



He probably did; but Lucy ignored the Sacred Lake and introduced them

formally. Old Mr. Emerson claimed her with much warmth, and said how

glad he was that she was going to be married. She said yes, she was

glad too; and then, as Miss Bartlett and Minnie were lingering behind

with Mr. Beebe, she turned the conversation to a less disturbing topic,

and asked him how he liked his new house.



“Very much,” he replied, but there was a note of offence in his voice;

she had never known him offended before. He added: “We find, though,

that the Miss Alans were coming, and that we have turned them out.

Women mind such a thing. I am very much upset about it.”



“I believe that there was some misunderstanding,” said Mrs. Honeychurch

uneasily.



“Our landlord was told that we should be a different type of person,”

said George, who seemed disposed to carry the matter further. “He

thought we should be artistic. He is disappointed.”



“And I wonder whether we ought to write to the Miss Alans and offer to

give it up. What do you think?” He appealed to Lucy.



“Oh, stop now you have come,” said Lucy lightly. She must avoid

censuring Cecil. For it was on Cecil that the little episode turned,

though his name was never mentioned.



“So George says. He says that the Miss Alans must go to the wall. Yet

it does seem so unkind.”



“There is only a certain amount of kindness in the world,” said George,

watching the sunlight flash on the panels of the passing carriages.



“Yes!” exclaimed Mrs. Honeychurch. “That’s exactly what I say. Why all

this twiddling and twaddling over two Miss Alans?”



“There is a certain amount of kindness, just as there is a certain

amount of light,” he continued in measured tones. “We cast a shadow on

something wherever we stand, and it is no good moving from place to

place to save things; because the shadow always follows. Choose a place

where you won’t do harm—yes, choose a place where you won’t do very

much harm, and stand in it for all you are worth, facing the sunshine.”



“Oh, Mr. Emerson, I see you’re clever!”



“Eh—?”



“I see you’re going to be clever. I hope you didn’t go behaving like

that to poor Freddy.”



George’s eyes laughed, and Lucy suspected that he and her mother would

get on rather well.



“No, I didn’t,” he said. “He behaved that way to me. It is his

philosophy. Only he starts life with it; and I have tried the Note of

Interrogation first.”



“What _do_ you mean? No, never mind what you mean. Don’t explain. He

looks forward to seeing you this afternoon. Do you play tennis? Do you

mind tennis on Sunday—?”



“George mind tennis on Sunday! George, after his education, distinguish

between Sunday—”



“Very well, George doesn’t mind tennis on Sunday. No more do I. That’s

settled. Mr. Emerson, if you could come with your son we should be so

pleased.”



He thanked her, but the walk sounded rather far; he could only potter

about in these days.



She turned to George: “And then he wants to give up his house to the

Miss Alans.”



“I know,” said George, and put his arm round his father’s neck. The

kindness that Mr. Beebe and Lucy had always known to exist in him came

out suddenly, like sunlight touching a vast landscape—a touch of the

morning sun? She remembered that in all his perversities he had never

spoken against affection.



Miss Bartlett approached.



“You know our cousin, Miss Bartlett,” said Mrs. Honeychurch pleasantly.

“You met her with my daughter in Florence.”



“Yes, indeed!” said the old man, and made as if he would come out of

the garden to meet the lady. Miss Bartlett promptly got into the

victoria. Thus entrenched, she emitted a formal bow. It was the pension

Bertolini again, the dining-table with the decanters of water and wine.

It was the old, old battle of the room with the view.



George did not respond to the bow. Like any boy, he blushed and was

ashamed; he knew that the chaperon remembered. He said: “I—I’ll come up

to tennis if I can manage it,” and went into the house. Perhaps

anything that he did would have pleased Lucy, but his awkwardness went

straight to her heart; men were not gods after all, but as human and as

clumsy as girls; even men might suffer from unexplained desires, and

need help. To one of her upbringing, and of her destination, the

weakness of men was a truth unfamiliar, but she had surmised it at

Florence, when George threw her photographs into the River Arno.



“George, don’t go,” cried his father, who thought it a great treat for

people if his son would talk to them. “George has been in such good

spirits today, and I am sure he will end by coming up this afternoon.”



Lucy caught her cousin’s eye. Something in its mute appeal made her

reckless. “Yes,” she said, raising her voice, “I do hope he will.” Then

she went to the carriage and murmured, “The old man hasn’t been told; I

knew it was all right.” Mrs. Honeychurch followed her, and they drove

away.



Satisfactory that Mr. Emerson had not been told of the Florence

escapade; yet Lucy’s spirits should not have leapt up as if she had

sighted the ramparts of heaven. Satisfactory; yet surely she greeted it

with disproportionate joy. All the way home the horses’ hoofs sang a

tune to her: “He has not told, he has not told.” Her brain expanded the

melody: “He has not told his father—to whom he tells all things. It was

not an exploit. He did not laugh at me when I had gone.” She raised her

hand to her cheek. “He does not love me. No. How terrible if he did!

But he has not told. He will not tell.”



She longed to shout the words: “It is all right. It’s a secret between

us two for ever. Cecil will never hear.” She was even glad that Miss

Bartlett had made her promise secrecy, that last dark evening at

Florence, when they had knelt packing in his room. The secret, big or

little, was guarded.



Only three English people knew of it in the world. Thus she interpreted

her joy. She greeted Cecil with unusual radiance, because she felt so

safe. As he helped her out of the carriage, she said:



“The Emersons have been so nice. George Emerson has improved

enormously.”



“How are my protégés?” asked Cecil, who took no real interest in them,

and had long since forgotten his resolution to bring them to Windy

Corner for educational purposes.



“Protégés!” she exclaimed with some warmth. For the only relationship

which Cecil conceived was feudal: that of protector and protected. He

had no glimpse of the comradeship after which the girl’s soul yearned.



“You shall see for yourself how your protégés are. George Emerson is

coming up this afternoon. He is a most interesting man to talk to. Only

don’t—” She nearly said, “Don’t protect him.” But the bell was ringing

for lunch, and, as often happened, Cecil had paid no great attention to

her remarks. Charm, not argument, was to be her forte.



Lunch was a cheerful meal. Generally Lucy was depressed at meals. Some

one had to be soothed—either Cecil or Miss Bartlett or a Being not

visible to the mortal eye—a Being who whispered to her soul: “It will

not last, this cheerfulness. In January you must go to London to

entertain the grandchildren of celebrated men.” But to-day she felt she

had received a guarantee. Her mother would always sit there, her

brother here. The sun, though it had moved a little since the morning,

would never be hidden behind the western hills. After luncheon they

asked her to play. She had seen Gluck’s Armide that year, and played

from memory the music of the enchanted garden—the music to which Renaud

approaches, beneath the light of an eternal dawn, the music that never

gains, never wanes, but ripples for ever like the tideless seas of

fairyland. Such music is not for the piano, and her audience began to

get restive, and Cecil, sharing the discontent, called out: “Now play

us the other garden—the one in Parsifal.”



She closed the instrument.



“Not very dutiful,” said her mother’s voice.



Fearing that she had offended Cecil, she turned quickly round. There

George was. He had crept in without interrupting her.



“Oh, I had no idea!” she exclaimed, getting very red; and then, without

a word of greeting, she reopened the piano. Cecil should have the

Parsifal, and anything else that he liked.



“Our performer has changed her mind,” said Miss Bartlett, perhaps

implying, she will play the music to Mr. Emerson. Lucy did not know

what to do nor even what she wanted to do. She played a few bars of the

Flower Maidens’ song very badly and then she stopped.



“I vote tennis,” said Freddy, disgusted at the scrappy entertainment.



“Yes, so do I.” Once more she closed the unfortunate piano. “I vote you

have a men’s four.”



“All right.”



“Not for me, thank you,” said Cecil. “I will not spoil the set.” He

never realized that it may be an act of kindness in a bad player to

make up a fourth.



“Oh, come along Cecil. I’m bad, Floyd’s rotten, and so I dare say’s

Emerson.”



George corrected him: “I am not bad.”



One looked down one’s nose at this. “Then certainly I won’t play,” said

Cecil, while Miss Bartlett, under the impression that she was snubbing

George, added: “I agree with you, Mr. Vyse. You had much better not

play. Much better not.”



Minnie, rushing in where Cecil feared to tread, announced that she

would play. “I shall miss every ball anyway, so what does it matter?”

But Sunday intervened and stamped heavily upon the kindly suggestion.



“Then it will have to be Lucy,” said Mrs. Honeychurch; “you must fall

back on Lucy. There is no other way out of it. Lucy, go and change your

frock.”



Lucy’s Sabbath was generally of this amphibious nature. She kept it

without hypocrisy in the morning, and broke it without reluctance in

the afternoon. As she changed her frock, she wondered whether Cecil was

sneering at her; really she must overhaul herself and settle everything

up before she married him.



Mr. Floyd was her partner. She liked music, but how much better tennis

seemed. How much better to run about in comfortable clothes than to sit

at the piano and feel girt under the arms. Once more music appeared to

her the employment of a child. George served, and surprised her by his

anxiety to win. She remembered how he had sighed among the tombs at

Santa Croce because things wouldn’t fit; how after the death of that

obscure Italian he had leant over the parapet by the Arno and said to

her: “I shall want to live, I tell you.” He wanted to live now, to win

at tennis, to stand for all he was worth in the sun—the sun which had

begun to decline and was shining in her eyes; and he did win.



Ah, how beautiful the Weald looked! The hills stood out above its

radiance, as Fiesole stands above the Tuscan Plain, and the South

Downs, if one chose, were the mountains of Carrara. She might be

forgetting her Italy, but she was noticing more things in her England.

One could play a new game with the view, and try to find in its

innumerable folds some town or village that would do for Florence. Ah,

how beautiful the Weald looked!



But now Cecil claimed her. He chanced to be in a lucid critical mood,

and would not sympathize with exaltation. He had been rather a nuisance

all through the tennis, for the novel that he was reading was so bad

that he was obliged to read it aloud to others. He would stroll round

the precincts of the court and call out: “I say, listen to this, Lucy.

Three split infinitives.”



“Dreadful!” said Lucy, and missed her stroke. When they had finished

their set, he still went on reading; there was some murder scene, and

really everyone must listen to it. Freddy and Mr. Floyd were obliged to

hunt for a lost ball in the laurels, but the other two acquiesced.



“The scene is laid in Florence.”



“What fun, Cecil! Read away. Come, Mr. Emerson, sit down after all your

energy.” She had “forgiven” George, as she put it, and she made a point

of being pleasant to him.



He jumped over the net and sat down at her feet asking: “You—and are

you tired?”



“Of course I’m not!”



“Do you mind being beaten?”



She was going to answer, “No,” when it struck her that she did mind, so

she answered, “Yes.” She added merrily, “I don’t see _you’re_ such a

splendid player, though. The light was behind you, and it was in my

eyes.”



“I never said I was.”



“Why, you did!”



“You didn’t attend.”



“You said—oh, don’t go in for accuracy at this house. We all

exaggerate, and we get very angry with people who don’t.”



“‘The scene is laid in Florence,’” repeated Cecil, with an upward note.



Lucy recollected herself.



“‘Sunset. Leonora was speeding—’”



Lucy interrupted. “Leonora? Is Leonora the heroine? Who’s the book by?”



“Joseph Emery Prank. ‘Sunset. Leonora speeding across the square. Pray

the saints she might not arrive too late. Sunset—the sunset of Italy.

Under Orcagna’s Loggia—the Loggia de’ Lanzi, as we sometimes call it

now—’”



Lucy burst into laughter. “‘Joseph Emery Prank’ indeed! Why it’s Miss

Lavish! It’s Miss Lavish’s novel, and she’s publishing it under

somebody else’s name.”



“Who may Miss Lavish be?”



“Oh, a dreadful person—Mr. Emerson, you remember Miss Lavish?”



Excited by her pleasant afternoon, she clapped her hands.



George looked up. “Of course I do. I saw her the day I arrived at

Summer Street. It was she who told me that you lived here.”



“Weren’t you pleased?” She meant “to see Miss Lavish,” but when he bent

down to the grass without replying, it struck her that she could mean

something else. She watched his head, which was almost resting against

her knee, and she thought that the ears were reddening. “No wonder the

novel’s bad,” she added. “I never liked Miss Lavish. But I suppose one

ought to read it as one’s met her.”



“All modern books are bad,” said Cecil, who was annoyed at her

inattention, and vented his annoyance on literature. “Every one writes

for money in these days.”



“Oh, Cecil—!”



“It is so. I will inflict Joseph Emery Prank on you no longer.”



Cecil, this afternoon seemed such a twittering sparrow. The ups and

downs in his voice were noticeable, but they did not affect her. She

had dwelt amongst melody and movement, and her nerves refused to answer

to the clang of his. Leaving him to be annoyed, she gazed at the black

head again. She did not want to stroke it, but she saw herself wanting

to stroke it; the sensation was curious.



“How do you like this view of ours, Mr. Emerson?”



“I never notice much difference in views.”



“What do you mean?”



“Because they’re all alike. Because all that matters in them is

distance and air.”



“H’m!” said Cecil, uncertain whether the remark was striking or not.



“My father”—he looked up at her (and he was a little flushed)—“says

that there is only one perfect view—the view of the sky straight over

our heads, and that all these views on earth are but bungled copies of

it.”



“I expect your father has been reading Dante,” said Cecil, fingering

the novel, which alone permitted him to lead the conversation.



“He told us another day that views are really crowds—crowds of trees

and houses and hills—and are bound to resemble each other, like human

crowds—and that the power they have over us is sometimes supernatural,

for the same reason.”



Lucy’s lips parted.



“For a crowd is more than the people who make it up. Something gets

added to it—no one knows how—just as something has got added to those

hills.”



He pointed with his racquet to the South Downs.



“What a splendid idea!” she murmured. “I shall enjoy hearing your

father talk again. I’m so sorry he’s not so well.”



“No, he isn’t well.”



“There’s an absurd account of a view in this book,” said Cecil. “Also

that men fall into two classes—those who forget views and those who

remember them, even in small rooms.”



“Mr. Emerson, have you any brothers or sisters?”



“None. Why?”



“You spoke of ‘us.’”



“My mother, I was meaning.”



Cecil closed the novel with a bang.



“Oh, Cecil—how you made me jump!”



“I will inflict Joseph Emery Prank on you no longer.”



“I can just remember us all three going into the country for the day

and seeing as far as Hindhead. It is the first thing that I remember.”



Cecil got up; the man was ill-bred—he hadn’t put on his coat after

tennis—he didn’t do. He would have strolled away if Lucy had not

stopped him.



“Cecil, do read the thing about the view.”



“Not while Mr. Emerson is here to entertain us.”



“No—read away. I think nothing’s funnier than to hear silly things read

out loud. If Mr. Emerson thinks us frivolous, he can go.”



This struck Cecil as subtle, and pleased him. It put their visitor in

the position of a prig. Somewhat mollified, he sat down again.



“Mr. Emerson, go and find tennis balls.” She opened the book. Cecil

must have his reading and anything else that he liked. But her

attention wandered to George’s mother, who—according to Mr. Eager—had

been murdered in the sight of God and—according to her son—had seen as

far as Hindhead.



“Am I really to go?” asked George.



“No, of course not really,” she answered.



“Chapter two,” said Cecil, yawning. “Find me chapter two, if it isn’t

bothering you.”



Chapter two was found, and she glanced at its opening sentences.



She thought she had gone mad.



“Here—hand me the book.”



She heard her voice saying: “It isn’t worth reading—it’s too silly to

read—I never saw such rubbish—it oughtn’t to be allowed to be printed.”



He took the book from her.



“‘Leonora,’” he read, “‘sat pensive and alone. Before her lay the rich

champaign of Tuscany, dotted over with many a smiling village. The

season was spring.’”



Miss Lavish knew, somehow, and had printed the past in draggled prose,

for Cecil to read and for George to hear.



“‘A golden haze,’” he read. He read: “‘Afar off the towers of Florence,

while the bank on which she sat was carpeted with violets. All

unobserved Antonio stole up behind her—’”



Lest Cecil should see her face she turned to George and saw his face.



He read: “‘There came from his lips no wordy protestation such as

formal lovers use. No eloquence was his, nor did he suffer from the

lack of it. He simply enfolded her in his manly arms.’”



“This isn’t the passage I wanted,” he informed them, “there is another

much funnier, further on.” He turned over the leaves.



“Should we go in to tea?” said Lucy, whose voice remained steady.



She led the way up the garden, Cecil following her, George last. She

thought a disaster was averted. But when they entered the shrubbery it

came. The book, as if it had not worked mischief enough, had been

forgotten, and Cecil must go back for it; and George, who loved

passionately, must blunder against her in the narrow path.



“No—” she gasped, and, for the second time, was kissed by him.



As if no more was possible, he slipped back; Cecil rejoined her; they

reached the upper lawn alone.









Chapter XVI

Lying to George





But Lucy had developed since the spring. That is to say, she was now

better able to stifle the emotions of which the conventions and the

world disapprove. Though the danger was greater, she was not shaken by

deep sobs. She said to Cecil, “I am not coming in to tea—tell mother—I

must write some letters,” and went up to her room. Then she prepared

for action. Love felt and returned, love which our bodies exact and our

hearts have transfigured, love which is the most real thing that we

shall ever meet, reappeared now as the world’s enemy, and she must

stifle it.



She sent for Miss Bartlett.



The contest lay not between love and duty. Perhaps there never is such

a contest. It lay between the real and the pretended, and Lucy’s first

aim was to defeat herself. As her brain clouded over, as the memory of

the views grew dim and the words of the book died away, she returned to

her old shibboleth of nerves. She “conquered her breakdown.” Tampering

with the truth, she forgot that the truth had ever been. Remembering

that she was engaged to Cecil, she compelled herself to confused

remembrances of George; he was nothing to her; he never had been

anything; he had behaved abominably; she had never encouraged him. The

armour of falsehood is subtly wrought out of darkness, and hides a man

not only from others, but from his own soul. In a few moments Lucy was

equipped for battle.



“Something too awful has happened,” she began, as soon as her cousin

arrived. “Do you know anything about Miss Lavish’s novel?”



Miss Bartlett looked surprised, and said that she had not read the

book, nor known that it was published; Eleanor was a reticent woman at

heart.



“There is a scene in it. The hero and heroine make love. Do you know

about that?”



“Dear—?”



“Do you know about it, please?” she repeated. “They are on a hillside,

and Florence is in the distance.”



“My good Lucia, I am all at sea. I know nothing about it whatever.”



“There are violets. I cannot believe it is a coincidence. Charlotte,

Charlotte, how _could_ you have told her? I have thought before

speaking; it _must_ be you.”



“Told her what?” she asked, with growing agitation.



“About that dreadful afternoon in February.”



Miss Bartlett was genuinely moved. “Oh, Lucy, dearest girl—she hasn’t

put that in her book?”



Lucy nodded.



“Not so that one could recognize it. Yes.”



“Then never—never—never more shall Eleanor Lavish be a friend of mine.”



“So you did tell?”



“I did just happen—when I had tea with her at Rome—in the course of

conversation—”



“But Charlotte—what about the promise you gave me when we were packing?

Why did you tell Miss Lavish, when you wouldn’t even let me tell

mother?”



“I will never forgive Eleanor. She has betrayed my confidence.”



“Why did you tell her, though? This is a most serious thing.”



Why does any one tell anything? The question is eternal, and it was not

surprising that Miss Bartlett should only sigh faintly in response. She

had done wrong—she admitted it, she only hoped that she had not done

harm; she had told Eleanor in the strictest confidence.



Lucy stamped with irritation.



“Cecil happened to read out the passage aloud to me and to Mr. Emerson;

it upset Mr. Emerson and he insulted me again. Behind Cecil’s back.

Ugh! Is it possible that men are such brutes? Behind Cecil’s back as we

were walking up the garden.”



Miss Bartlett burst into self-accusations and regrets.



“What is to be done now? Can you tell me?”



“Oh, Lucy—I shall never forgive myself, never to my dying day. Fancy if

your prospects—”



“I know,” said Lucy, wincing at the word. “I see now why you wanted me

to tell Cecil, and what you meant by ‘some other source.’ You knew that

you had told Miss Lavish, and that she was not reliable.”



It was Miss Bartlett’s turn to wince. “However,” said the girl,

despising her cousin’s shiftiness, “What’s done’s done. You have put me

in a most awkward position. How am I to get out of it?”



Miss Bartlett could not think. The days of her energy were over. She

was a visitor, not a chaperon, and a discredited visitor at that. She

stood with clasped hands while the girl worked herself into the

necessary rage.



“He must—that man must have such a setting down that he won’t forget.

And who’s to give it him? I can’t tell mother now—owing to you. Nor

Cecil, Charlotte, owing to you. I am caught up every way. I think I

shall go mad. I have no one to help me. That’s why I’ve sent for you.

What’s wanted is a man with a whip.”



Miss Bartlett agreed: one wanted a man with a whip.



“Yes—but it’s no good agreeing. What’s to be _done?_ We women go

maundering on. What _does_ a girl do when she comes across a cad?”



“I always said he was a cad, dear. Give me credit for that, at all

events. From the very first moment—when he said his father was having a

bath.”



“Oh, bother the credit and who’s been right or wrong! We’ve both made a

muddle of it. George Emerson is still down the garden there, and is he

to be left unpunished, or isn’t he? I want to know.”



Miss Bartlett was absolutely helpless. Her own exposure had unnerved

her, and thoughts were colliding painfully in her brain. She moved

feebly to the window, and tried to detect the cad’s white flannels

among the laurels.



“You were ready enough at the Bertolini when you rushed me off to Rome.

Can’t you speak again to him now?”



“Willingly would I move heaven and earth—”



“I want something more definite,” said Lucy contemptuously. “Will you

speak to him? It is the least you can do, surely, considering it all

happened because you broke your word.”



“Never again shall Eleanor Lavish be a friend of mine.”



Really, Charlotte was outdoing herself.



“Yes or no, please; yes or no.”



“It is the kind of thing that only a gentleman can settle.” George

Emerson was coming up the garden with a tennis ball in his hand.



“Very well,” said Lucy, with an angry gesture. “No one will help me. I

will speak to him myself.” And immediately she realized that this was

what her cousin had intended all along.



“Hullo, Emerson!” called Freddy from below. “Found the lost ball? Good

man! Want any tea?” And there was an irruption from the house on to the

terrace.



“Oh, Lucy, but that is brave of you! I admire you—”



They had gathered round George, who beckoned, she felt, over the

rubbish, the sloppy thoughts, the furtive yearnings that were beginning

to cumber her soul. Her anger faded at the sight of him. Ah! The

Emersons were fine people in their way. She had to subdue a rush in her

blood before saying:



“Freddy has taken him into the dining-room. The others are going down

the garden. Come. Let us get this over quickly. Come. I want you in the

room, of course.”



“Lucy, do you mind doing it?”



“How can you ask such a ridiculous question?”



“Poor Lucy—” She stretched out her hand. “I seem to bring nothing but

misfortune wherever I go.” Lucy nodded. She remembered their last

evening at Florence—the packing, the candle, the shadow of Miss

Bartlett’s toque on the door. She was not to be trapped by pathos a

second time. Eluding her cousin’s caress, she led the way downstairs.



“Try the jam,” Freddy was saying. “The jam’s jolly good.”



George, looking big and dishevelled, was pacing up and down the

dining-room. As she entered he stopped, and said:



“No—nothing to eat.”



“You go down to the others,” said Lucy; “Charlotte and I will give Mr.

Emerson all he wants. Where’s mother?”



“She’s started on her Sunday writing. She’s in the drawing-room.”



“That’s all right. You go away.”



He went off singing.



Lucy sat down at the table. Miss Bartlett, who was thoroughly

frightened, took up a book and pretended to read.



She would not be drawn into an elaborate speech. She just said: “I

can’t have it, Mr. Emerson. I cannot even talk to you. Go out of this

house, and never come into it again as long as I live here—” flushing

as she spoke and pointing to the door. “I hate a row. Go please.”



“What—”



“No discussion.”



“But I can’t—”



She shook her head. “Go, please. I do not want to call in Mr. Vyse.”



“You don’t mean,” he said, absolutely ignoring Miss Bartlett—“you don’t

mean that you are going to marry that man?”



The line was unexpected.



She shrugged her shoulders, as if his vulgarity wearied her. “You are

merely ridiculous,” she said quietly.



Then his words rose gravely over hers: “You cannot live with Vyse. He’s

only for an acquaintance. He is for society and cultivated talk. He

should know no one intimately, least of all a woman.”



It was a new light on Cecil’s character.



“Have you ever talked to Vyse without feeling tired?”



“I can scarcely discuss—”



“No, but have you ever? He is the sort who are all right so long as

they keep to things—books, pictures—but kill when they come to people.

That’s why I’ll speak out through all this muddle even now. It’s

shocking enough to lose you in any case, but generally a man must deny

himself joy, and I would have held back if your Cecil had been a

different person. I would never have let myself go. But I saw him first

in the National Gallery, when he winced because my father mispronounced

the names of great painters. Then he brings us here, and we find it is

to play some silly trick on a kind neighbour. That is the man all

over—playing tricks on people, on the most sacred form of life that he

can find. Next, I meet you together, and find him protecting and

teaching you and your mother to be shocked, when it was for _you_ to

settle whether you were shocked or no. Cecil all over again. He daren’t

let a woman decide. He’s the type who’s kept Europe back for a thousand

years. Every moment of his life he’s forming you, telling you what’s

charming or amusing or ladylike, telling you what a man thinks womanly;

and you, you of all women, listen to his voice instead of to your own.

So it was at the Rectory, when I met you both again; so it has been the

whole of this afternoon. Therefore—not ‘therefore I kissed you,’

because the book made me do that, and I wish to goodness I had more

self-control. I’m not ashamed. I don’t apologize. But it has frightened

you, and you may not have noticed that I love you. Or would you have

told me to go, and dealt with a tremendous thing so lightly? But

therefore—therefore I settled to fight him.”



Lucy thought of a very good remark.



“You say Mr. Vyse wants me to listen to him, Mr. Emerson. Pardon me for

suggesting that you have caught the habit.”



And he took the shoddy reproof and touched it into immortality. He

said:



“Yes, I have,” and sank down as if suddenly weary. “I’m the same kind

of brute at bottom. This desire to govern a woman—it lies very deep,

and men and women must fight it together before they shall enter the

garden. But I do love you surely in a better way than he does.” He

thought. “Yes—really in a better way. I want you to have your own

thoughts even when I hold you in my arms.” He stretched them towards

her. “Lucy, be quick—there’s no time for us to talk now—come to me as

you came in the spring, and afterwards I will be gentle and explain. I

have cared for you since that man died. I cannot live without you, ‘No

good,’ I thought; ‘she is marrying someone else’; but I meet you again

when all the world is glorious water and sun. As you came through the

wood I saw that nothing else mattered. I called. I wanted to live and

have my chance of joy.”



“And Mr. Vyse?” said Lucy, who kept commendably calm. “Does he not

matter? That I love Cecil and shall be his wife shortly? A detail of no

importance, I suppose?”



But he stretched his arms over the table towards her.



“May I ask what you intend to gain by this exhibition?”



He said: “It is our last chance. I shall do all that I can.” And as if

he had done all else, he turned to Miss Bartlett, who sat like some

portent against the skies of the evening. “You wouldn’t stop us this

second time if you understood,” he said. “I have been into the dark,

and I am going back into it, unless you will try to understand.”



Her long, narrow head drove backwards and forwards, as though

demolishing some invisible obstacle. She did not answer.



“It is being young,” he said quietly, picking up his racquet from the

floor and preparing to go. “It is being certain that Lucy cares for me

really. It is that love and youth matter intellectually.”



In silence the two women watched him. His last remark, they knew, was

nonsense, but was he going after it or not? Would not he, the cad, the

charlatan, attempt a more dramatic finish? No. He was apparently

content. He left them, carefully closing the front door; and when they

looked through the hall window, they saw him go up the drive and begin

to climb the slopes of withered fern behind the house. Their tongues

were loosed, and they burst into stealthy rejoicings.



“Oh, Lucia—come back here—oh, what an awful man!”



Lucy had no reaction—at least, not yet. “Well, he amuses me,” she said.

“Either I’m mad, or else he is, and I’m inclined to think it’s the

latter. One more fuss through with you, Charlotte. Many thanks. I

think, though, that this is the last. My admirer will hardly trouble me

again.”



And Miss Bartlett, too, essayed the roguish:



“Well, it isn’t everyone who could boast such a conquest, dearest, is

it? Oh, one oughtn’t to laugh, really. It might have been very serious.

But you were so sensible and brave—so unlike the girls of my day.”



“Let’s go down to them.”



But, once in the open air, she paused. Some emotion—pity, terror, love,

but the emotion was strong—seized her, and she was aware of autumn.

Summer was ending, and the evening brought her odours of decay, the

more pathetic because they were reminiscent of spring. That something

or other mattered intellectually? A leaf, violently agitated, danced

past her, while other leaves lay motionless. That the earth was

hastening to re-enter darkness, and the shadows of those trees over

Windy Corner?



“Hullo, Lucy! There’s still light enough for another set, if you two’ll

hurry.”



“Mr. Emerson has had to go.”



“What a nuisance! That spoils the four. I say, Cecil, do play, do,

there’s a good chap. It’s Floyd’s last day. Do play tennis with us,

just this once.”



Cecil’s voice came: “My dear Freddy, I am no athlete. As you well

remarked this very morning, ‘There are some chaps who are no good for

anything but books’; I plead guilty to being such a chap, and will not

inflict myself on you.”



The scales fell from Lucy’s eyes. How had she stood Cecil for a moment?

He was absolutely intolerable, and the same evening she broke off her

engagement.









Chapter XVII

Lying to Cecil





He was bewildered. He had nothing to say. He was not even angry, but

stood, with a glass of whiskey between his hands, trying to think what

had led her to such a conclusion.



She had chosen the moment before bed, when, in accordance with their

bourgeois habit, she always dispensed drinks to the men. Freddy and Mr.

Floyd were sure to retire with their glasses, while Cecil invariably

lingered, sipping at his while she locked up the sideboard.



“I am very sorry about it,” she said; “I have carefully thought things

over. We are too different. I must ask you to release me, and try to

forget that there ever was such a foolish girl.”



It was a suitable speech, but she was more angry than sorry, and her

voice showed it.



“Different—how—how—”



“I haven’t had a really good education, for one thing,” she continued,

still on her knees by the sideboard. “My Italian trip came too late,

and I am forgetting all that I learnt there. I shall never be able to

talk to your friends, or behave as a wife of yours should.”



“I don’t understand you. You aren’t like yourself. You’re tired, Lucy.”



“Tired!” she retorted, kindling at once. “That is exactly like you. You

always think women don’t mean what they say.”



“Well, you sound tired, as if something has worried you.”



“What if I do? It doesn’t prevent me from realizing the truth. I can’t

marry you, and you will thank me for saying so some day.”



“You had that bad headache yesterday—All right”—for she had exclaimed

indignantly: “I see it’s much more than headaches. But give me a

moment’s time.” He closed his eyes. “You must excuse me if I say stupid

things, but my brain has gone to pieces. Part of it lives three minutes

back, when I was sure that you loved me, and the other part—I find it

difficult—I am likely to say the wrong thing.”



It struck her that he was not behaving so badly, and her irritation

increased. She again desired a struggle, not a discussion. To bring on

the crisis, she said:



“There are days when one sees clearly, and this is one of them. Things

must come to a breaking-point some time, and it happens to be to-day.

If you want to know, quite a little thing decided me to speak to

you—when you wouldn’t play tennis with Freddy.”



“I never do play tennis,” said Cecil, painfully bewildered; “I never

could play. I don’t understand a word you say.”



“You can play well enough to make up a four. I thought it abominably

selfish of you.”



“No, I can’t—well, never mind the tennis. Why couldn’t you—couldn’t you

have warned me if you felt anything wrong? You talked of our wedding at

lunch—at least, you let me talk.”



“I knew you wouldn’t understand,” said Lucy quite crossly. “I might

have known there would have been these dreadful explanations. Of

course, it isn’t the tennis—that was only the last straw to all I have

been feeling for weeks. Surely it was better not to speak until I felt

certain.” She developed this position. “Often before I have wondered if

I was fitted for your wife—for instance, in London; and are you fitted

to be my husband? I don’t think so. You don’t like Freddy, nor my

mother. There was always a lot against our engagement, Cecil, but all

our relations seemed pleased, and we met so often, and it was no good

mentioning it until—well, until all things came to a point. They have

to-day. I see clearly. I must speak. That’s all.”



“I cannot think you were right,” said Cecil gently. “I cannot tell why,

but though all that you say sounds true, I feel that you are not

treating me fairly. It’s all too horrible.”



“What’s the good of a scene?”



“No good. But surely I have a right to hear a little more.”



He put down his glass and opened the window. From where she knelt,

jangling her keys, she could see a slit of darkness, and, peering into

it, as if it would tell him that “little more,” his long, thoughtful

face.



“Don’t open the window; and you’d better draw the curtain, too; Freddy

or any one might be outside.” He obeyed. “I really think we had better

go to bed, if you don’t mind. I shall only say things that will make me

unhappy afterwards. As you say it is all too horrible, and it is no

good talking.”



But to Cecil, now that he was about to lose her, she seemed each moment

more desirable. He looked at her, instead of through her, for the first

time since they were engaged. From a Leonardo she had become a living

woman, with mysteries and forces of her own, with qualities that even

eluded art. His brain recovered from the shock, and, in a burst of

genuine devotion, he cried: “But I love you, and I did think you loved

me!”



“I did not,” she said. “I thought I did at first. I am sorry, and ought

to have refused you this last time, too.”



He began to walk up and down the room, and she grew more and more vexed

at his dignified behaviour. She had counted on his being petty. It

would have made things easier for her. By a cruel irony she was drawing

out all that was finest in his disposition.



“You don’t love me, evidently. I dare say you are right not to. But it

would hurt a little less if I knew why.”



“Because”—a phrase came to her, and she accepted it—“you’re the sort

who can’t know any one intimately.”



A horrified look came into his eyes.



“I don’t mean exactly that. But you will question me, though I beg you

not to, and I must say something. It is that, more or less. When we

were only acquaintances, you let me be myself, but now you’re always

protecting me.” Her voice swelled. “I won’t be protected. I will choose

for myself what is ladylike and right. To shield me is an insult. Can’t

I be trusted to face the truth but I must get it second-hand through

you? A woman’s place! You despise my mother—I know you do—because she’s

conventional and bothers over puddings; but, oh goodness!”—she rose to

her feet—“conventional, Cecil, you’re that, for you may understand

beautiful things, but you don’t know how to use them; and you wrap

yourself up in art and books and music, and would try to wrap up me. I

won’t be stifled, not by the most glorious music, for people are more

glorious, and you hide them from me. That’s why I break off my

engagement. You were all right as long as you kept to things, but when

you came to people—” She stopped.



There was a pause. Then Cecil said with great emotion:



“It is true.”



“True on the whole,” she corrected, full of some vague shame.



“True, every word. It is a revelation. It is—I.”



“Anyhow, those are my reasons for not being your wife.”



He repeated: “‘The sort that can know no one intimately.’ It is true. I

fell to pieces the very first day we were engaged. I behaved like a cad

to Beebe and to your brother. You are even greater than I thought.” She

withdrew a step. “I’m not going to worry you. You are far too good to

me. I shall never forget your insight; and, dear, I only blame you for

this: you might have warned me in the early stages, before you felt you

wouldn’t marry me, and so have given me a chance to improve. I have

never known you till this evening. I have just used you as a peg for my

silly notions of what a woman should be. But this evening you are a

different person: new thoughts—even a new voice—”



“What do you mean by a new voice?” she asked, seized with

incontrollable anger.



“I mean that a new person seems speaking through you,” said he.



Then she lost her balance. She cried: “If you think I am in love with

some one else, you are very much mistaken.”



“Of course I don’t think that. You are not that kind, Lucy.”



“Oh, yes, you do think it. It’s your old idea, the idea that has kept

Europe back—I mean the idea that women are always thinking of men. If a

girl breaks off her engagement, everyone says: ‘Oh, she had someone

else in her mind; she hopes to get someone else.’ It’s disgusting,

brutal! As if a girl can’t break it off for the sake of freedom.”



He answered reverently: “I may have said that in the past. I shall

never say it again. You have taught me better.”



She began to redden, and pretended to examine the windows again.



“Of course, there is no question of ‘someone else’ in this, no

‘jilting’ or any such nauseous stupidity. I beg your pardon most humbly

if my words suggested that there was. I only meant that there was a

force in you that I hadn’t known of up till now.”



“All right, Cecil, that will do. Don’t apologize to me. It was my

mistake.”



“It is a question between ideals, yours and mine—pure abstract ideals,

and yours are the nobler. I was bound up in the old vicious notions,

and all the time you were splendid and new.” His voice broke. “I must

actually thank you for what you have done—for showing me what I really

am. Solemnly, I thank you for showing me a true woman. Will you shake

hands?”



“Of course I will,” said Lucy, twisting up her other hand in the

curtains. “Good-night, Cecil. Good-bye. That’s all right. I’m sorry

about it. Thank you very much for your gentleness.”



“Let me light your candle, shall I?”



They went into the hall.



“Thank you. Good-night again. God bless you, Lucy!”



“Good-bye, Cecil.”



She watched him steal up-stairs, while the shadows from three banisters

passed over her face like the beat of wings. On the landing he paused

strong in his renunciation, and gave her a look of memorable beauty.

For all his culture, Cecil was an ascetic at heart, and nothing in his

love became him like the leaving of it.



She could never marry. In the tumult of her soul, that stood firm.

Cecil believed in her; she must some day believe in herself. She must

be one of the women whom she had praised so eloquently, who care for

liberty and not for men; she must forget that George loved her, that

George had been thinking through her and gained her this honourable

release, that George had gone away into—what was it?—the darkness.



She put out the lamp.



It did not do to think, nor, for the matter of that, to feel. She gave

up trying to understand herself, and joined the vast armies of the

benighted, who follow neither the heart nor the brain, and march to

their destiny by catch-words. The armies are full of pleasant and pious

folk. But they have yielded to the only enemy that matters—the enemy

within. They have sinned against passion and truth, and vain will be

their strife after virtue. As the years pass, they are censured. Their

pleasantry and their piety show cracks, their wit becomes cynicism,

their unselfishness hypocrisy; they feel and produce discomfort

wherever they go. They have sinned against Eros and against Pallas

Athene, and not by any heavenly intervention, but by the ordinary

course of nature, those allied deities will be avenged.



Lucy entered this army when she pretended to George that she did not

love him, and pretended to Cecil that she loved no one. The night

received her, as it had received Miss Bartlett thirty years before.









Chapter XVIII

Lying to Mr. Beebe, Mrs. Honeychurch, Freddy, and The Servants





Windy Corner lay, not on the summit of the ridge, but a few hundred

feet down the southern slope, at the springing of one of the great

buttresses that supported the hill. On either side of it was a shallow

ravine, filled with ferns and pine-trees, and down the ravine on the

left ran the highway into the Weald.



Whenever Mr. Beebe crossed the ridge and caught sight of these noble

dispositions of the earth, and, poised in the middle of them, Windy

Corner,—he laughed. The situation was so glorious, the house so

commonplace, not to say impertinent. The late Mr. Honeychurch had

affected the cube, because it gave him the most accommodation for his

money, and the only addition made by his widow had been a small turret,

shaped like a rhinoceros’ horn, where she could sit in wet weather and

watch the carts going up and down the road. So impertinent—and yet the

house “did,” for it was the home of people who loved their surroundings

honestly. Other houses in the neighborhood had been built by expensive

architects, over others their inmates had fidgeted sedulously, yet all

these suggested the accidental, the temporary; while Windy Corner

seemed as inevitable as an ugliness of Nature’s own creation. One might

laugh at the house, but one never shuddered. Mr. Beebe was bicycling

over this Monday afternoon with a piece of gossip. He had heard from

the Miss Alans. These admirable ladies, since they could not go to

Cissie Villa, had changed their plans. They were going to Greece

instead.



“Since Florence did my poor sister so much good,” wrote Miss Catharine,

“we do not see why we should not try Athens this winter. Of course,

Athens is a plunge, and the doctor has ordered her special digestive

bread; but, after all, we can take that with us, and it is only getting

first into a steamer and then into a train. But is there an English

Church?” And the letter went on to say: “I do not expect we shall go

any further than Athens, but if you knew of a really comfortable

pension at Constantinople, we should be so grateful.”



Lucy would enjoy this letter, and the smile with which Mr. Beebe

greeted Windy Corner was partly for her. She would see the fun of it,

and some of its beauty, for she must see some beauty. Though she was

hopeless about pictures, and though she dressed so unevenly—oh, that

cerise frock yesterday at church!—she must see some beauty in life, or

she could not play the piano as she did. He had a theory that musicians

are incredibly complex, and know far less than other artists what they

want and what they are; that they puzzle themselves as well as their

friends; that their psychology is a modern development, and has not yet

been understood. This theory, had he known it, had possibly just been

illustrated by facts. Ignorant of the events of yesterday he was only

riding over to get some tea, to see his niece, and to observe whether

Miss Honeychurch saw anything beautiful in the desire of two old ladies

to visit Athens.



A carriage was drawn up outside Windy Corner, and just as he caught

sight of the house it started, bowled up the drive, and stopped

abruptly when it reached the main road. Therefore it must be the horse,

who always expected people to walk up the hill in case they tired him.

The door opened obediently, and two men emerged, whom Mr. Beebe

recognized as Cecil and Freddy. They were an odd couple to go driving;

but he saw a trunk beside the coachman’s legs. Cecil, who wore a

bowler, must be going away, while Freddy (a cap)—was seeing him to the

station. They walked rapidly, taking the short cuts, and reached the

summit while the carriage was still pursuing the windings of the road.



They shook hands with the clergyman, but did not speak.



“So you’re off for a minute, Mr. Vyse?” he asked.



Cecil said, “Yes,” while Freddy edged away.



“I was coming to show you this delightful letter from those friends of

Miss Honeychurch.” He quoted from it. “Isn’t it wonderful? Isn’t it

romance? Most certainly they will go to Constantinople. They are taken

in a snare that cannot fail. They will end by going round the world.”



Cecil listened civilly, and said he was sure that Lucy would be amused

and interested.



“Isn’t Romance capricious! I never notice it in you young people; you

do nothing but play lawn tennis, and say that romance is dead, while

the Miss Alans are struggling with all the weapons of propriety against

the terrible thing. ‘A really comfortable pension at Constantinople!’

So they call it out of decency, but in their hearts they want a pension

with magic windows opening on the foam of perilous seas in fairyland

forlorn! No ordinary view will content the Miss Alans. They want the

Pension Keats.”



“I’m awfully sorry to interrupt, Mr. Beebe,” said Freddy, “but have you

any matches?”



“I have,” said Cecil, and it did not escape Mr. Beebe’s notice that he

spoke to the boy more kindly.



“You have never met these Miss Alans, have you, Mr. Vyse?”



“Never.”



“Then you don’t see the wonder of this Greek visit. I haven’t been to

Greece myself, and don’t mean to go, and I can’t imagine any of my

friends going. It is altogether too big for our little lot. Don’t you

think so? Italy is just about as much as we can manage. Italy is

heroic, but Greece is godlike or devilish—I am not sure which, and in

either case absolutely out of our suburban focus. All right, Freddy—I

am not being clever, upon my word I am not—I took the idea from another

fellow; and give me those matches when you’ve done with them.” He lit a

cigarette, and went on talking to the two young men. “I was saying, if

our poor little Cockney lives must have a background, let it be

Italian. Big enough in all conscience. The ceiling of the Sistine

Chapel for me. There the contrast is just as much as I can realize. But

not the Parthenon, not the frieze of Phidias at any price; and here

comes the victoria.”



“You’re quite right,” said Cecil. “Greece is not for our little lot”;

and he got in. Freddy followed, nodding to the clergyman, whom he

trusted not to be pulling one’s leg, really. And before they had gone a

dozen yards he jumped out, and came running back for Vyse’s match-box,

which had not been returned. As he took it, he said: “I’m so glad you

only talked about books. Cecil’s hard hit. Lucy won’t marry him. If

you’d gone on about her, as you did about them, he might have broken

down.”



“But when—”



“Late last night. I must go.”



“Perhaps they won’t want me down there.”



“No—go on. Good-bye.”



“Thank goodness!” exclaimed Mr. Beebe to himself, and struck the saddle

of his bicycle approvingly, “It was the one foolish thing she ever did.

Oh, what a glorious riddance!” And, after a little thought, he

negotiated the slope into Windy Corner, light of heart. The house was

again as it ought to be—cut off forever from Cecil’s pretentious world.



He would find Miss Minnie down in the garden.



In the drawing-room Lucy was tinkling at a Mozart Sonata. He hesitated

a moment, but went down the garden as requested. There he found a

mournful company. It was a blustering day, and the wind had taken and

broken the dahlias. Mrs. Honeychurch, who looked cross, was tying them

up, while Miss Bartlett, unsuitably dressed, impeded her with offers of

assistance. At a little distance stood Minnie and the “garden-child,” a

minute importation, each holding either end of a long piece of bass.



“Oh, how do you do, Mr. Beebe? Gracious what a mess everything is! Look

at my scarlet pompoms, and the wind blowing your skirts about, and the

ground so hard that not a prop will stick in, and then the carriage

having to go out, when I had counted on having Powell, who—give

everyone their due—does tie up dahlias properly.”



Evidently Mrs. Honeychurch was shattered.



“How do you do?” said Miss Bartlett, with a meaning glance, as though

conveying that more than dahlias had been broken off by the autumn

gales.



“Here, Lennie, the bass,” cried Mrs. Honeychurch. The garden-child, who

did not know what bass was, stood rooted to the path with horror.

Minnie slipped to her uncle and whispered that everyone was very

disagreeable to-day, and that it was not her fault if dahlia-strings

would tear longways instead of across.



“Come for a walk with me,” he told her. “You have worried them as much

as they can stand. Mrs. Honeychurch, I only called in aimlessly. I

shall take her up to tea at the Beehive Tavern, if I may.”



“Oh, must you? Yes do.—Not the scissors, thank you, Charlotte, when

both my hands are full already—I’m perfectly certain that the orange

cactus will go before I can get to it.”



Mr. Beebe, who was an adept at relieving situations, invited Miss

Bartlett to accompany them to this mild festivity.



“Yes, Charlotte, I don’t want you—do go; there’s nothing to stop about

for, either in the house or out of it.”



Miss Bartlett said that her duty lay in the dahlia bed, but when she

had exasperated everyone, except Minnie, by a refusal, she turned round

and exasperated Minnie by an acceptance. As they walked up the garden,

the orange cactus fell, and Mr. Beebe’s last vision was of the

garden-child clasping it like a lover, his dark head buried in a wealth

of blossom.



“It is terrible, this havoc among the flowers,” he remarked.



“It is always terrible when the promise of months is destroyed in a

moment,” enunciated Miss Bartlett.



“Perhaps we ought to send Miss Honeychurch down to her mother. Or will

she come with us?”



“I think we had better leave Lucy to herself, and to her own pursuits.”



“They’re angry with Miss Honeychurch because she was late for

breakfast,” whispered Minnie, “and Floyd has gone, and Mr. Vyse has

gone, and Freddy won’t play with me. In fact, Uncle Arthur, the house

is not _at all_ what it was yesterday.”



“Don’t be a prig,” said her Uncle Arthur. “Go and put on your boots.”



He stepped into the drawing-room, where Lucy was still attentively

pursuing the Sonatas of Mozart. She stopped when he entered.



“How do you do? Miss Bartlett and Minnie are coming with me to tea at

the Beehive. Would you come too?”



“I don’t think I will, thank you.”



“No, I didn’t suppose you would care to much.”



Lucy turned to the piano and struck a few chords.



“How delicate those Sonatas are!” said Mr. Beebe, though at the bottom

of his heart, he thought them silly little things.



Lucy passed into Schumann.



“Miss Honeychurch!”



“Yes.”



“I met them on the hill. Your brother told me.”



“Oh he did?” She sounded annoyed. Mr. Beebe felt hurt, for he had

thought that she would like him to be told.



“I needn’t say that it will go no further.”



“Mother, Charlotte, Cecil, Freddy, you,” said Lucy, playing a note for

each person who knew, and then playing a sixth note.



“If you’ll let me say so, I am very glad, and I am certain that you

have done the right thing.”



“So I hoped other people would think, but they don’t seem to.”



“I could see that Miss Bartlett thought it unwise.”



“So does mother. Mother minds dreadfully.”



“I am very sorry for that,” said Mr. Beebe with feeling.



Mrs. Honeychurch, who hated all changes, did mind, but not nearly as

much as her daughter pretended, and only for the minute. It was really

a ruse of Lucy’s to justify her despondency—a ruse of which she was not

herself conscious, for she was marching in the armies of darkness.



“And Freddy minds.”



“Still, Freddy never hit it off with Vyse much, did he? I gathered that

he disliked the engagement, and felt it might separate him from you.”



“Boys are so odd.”



Minnie could be heard arguing with Miss Bartlett through the floor. Tea

at the Beehive apparently involved a complete change of apparel. Mr.

Beebe saw that Lucy—very properly—did not wish to discuss her action,

so after a sincere expression of sympathy, he said, “I have had an

absurd letter from Miss Alan. That was really what brought me over. I

thought it might amuse you all.”



“How delightful!” said Lucy, in a dull voice.



For the sake of something to do, he began to read her the letter. After

a few words her eyes grew alert, and soon she interrupted him with

“Going abroad? When do they start?”



“Next week, I gather.”



“Did Freddy say whether he was driving straight back?”



“No, he didn’t.”



“Because I do hope he won’t go gossiping.”



So she did want to talk about her broken engagement. Always

complaisant, he put the letter away. But she, at once exclaimed in a

high voice, “Oh, do tell me more about the Miss Alans! How perfectly

splendid of them to go abroad!”



“I want them to start from Venice, and go in a cargo steamer down the

Illyrian coast!”



She laughed heartily. “Oh, delightful! I wish they’d take me.”



“Has Italy filled you with the fever of travel? Perhaps George Emerson

is right. He says that ‘Italy is only an euphuism for Fate.’”



“Oh, not Italy, but Constantinople. I have always longed to go to

Constantinople. Constantinople is practically Asia, isn’t it?”



Mr. Beebe reminded her that Constantinople was still unlikely, and that

the Miss Alans only aimed at Athens, “with Delphi, perhaps, if the

roads are safe.” But this made no difference to her enthusiasm. She had

always longed to go to Greece even more, it seemed. He saw, to his

surprise, that she was apparently serious.



“I didn’t realize that you and the Miss Alans were still such friends,

after Cissie Villa.”



“Oh, that’s nothing; I assure you Cissie Villa’s nothing to me; I would

give anything to go with them.”



“Would your mother spare you again so soon? You have scarcely been home

three months.”



“She _must_ spare me!” cried Lucy, in growing excitement. “I simply

_must_ go away. I have to.” She ran her fingers hysterically through

her hair. “Don’t you see that I _have_ to go away? I didn’t realize at

the time—and of course I want to see Constantinople so particularly.”



“You mean that since you have broken off your engagement you feel—”



“Yes, yes. I knew you’d understand.”



Mr. Beebe did not quite understand. Why could not Miss Honeychurch

repose in the bosom of her family? Cecil had evidently taken up the

dignified line, and was not going to annoy her. Then it struck him that

her family itself might be annoying. He hinted this to her, and she

accepted the hint eagerly.



“Yes, of course; to go to Constantinople until they are used to the

idea and everything has calmed down.”



“I am afraid it has been a bothersome business,” he said gently.



“No, not at all. Cecil was very kind indeed; only—I had better tell you

the whole truth, since you have heard a little—it was that he is so

masterful. I found that he wouldn’t let me go my own way. He would

improve me in places where I can’t be improved. Cecil won’t let a woman

decide for herself—in fact, he daren’t. What nonsense I do talk! But

that is the kind of thing.”



“It is what I gathered from my own observation of Mr. Vyse; it is what

I gather from all that I have known of you. I do sympathize and agree

most profoundly. I agree so much that you must let me make one little

criticism: Is it worth while rushing off to Greece?”



“But I must go somewhere!” she cried. “I have been worrying all the

morning, and here comes the very thing.” She struck her knees with

clenched fists, and repeated: “I must! And the time I shall have with

mother, and all the money she spent on me last spring. You all think

much too highly of me. I wish you weren’t so kind.” At this moment Miss

Bartlett entered, and her nervousness increased. “I must get away, ever

so far. I must know my own mind and where I want to go.”



“Come along; tea, tea, tea,” said Mr. Beebe, and bustled his guests out

of the front-door. He hustled them so quickly that he forgot his hat.

When he returned for it he heard, to his relief and surprise, the

tinkling of a Mozart Sonata.



“She is playing again,” he said to Miss Bartlett.



“Lucy can always play,” was the acid reply.



“One is very thankful that she has such a resource. She is evidently

much worried, as, of course, she ought to be. I know all about it. The

marriage was so near that it must have been a hard struggle before she

could wind herself up to speak.”



Miss Bartlett gave a kind of wriggle, and he prepared for a discussion.

He had never fathomed Miss Bartlett. As he had put it to himself at

Florence, “she might yet reveal depths of strangeness, if not of

meaning.” But she was so unsympathetic that she must be reliable. He

assumed that much, and he had no hesitation in discussing Lucy with

her. Minnie was fortunately collecting ferns.



She opened the discussion with: “We had much better let the matter

drop.”



“I wonder.”



“It is of the highest importance that there should be no gossip in

Summer Street. It would be _death_ to gossip about Mr. Vyse’s dismissal

at the present moment.”



Mr. Beebe raised his eyebrows. Death is a strong word—surely too

strong. There was no question of tragedy. He said: “Of course, Miss

Honeychurch will make the fact public in her own way, and when she

chooses. Freddy only told me because he knew she would not mind.”



“I know,” said Miss Bartlett civilly. “Yet Freddy ought not to have

told even you. One cannot be too careful.”



“Quite so.”



“I do implore absolute secrecy. A chance word to a chattering friend,

and—”



“Exactly.” He was used to these nervous old maids and to the

exaggerated importance that they attach to words. A rector lives in a

web of petty secrets, and confidences and warnings, and the wiser he is

the less he will regard them. He will change the subject, as did Mr.

Beebe, saying cheerfully: “Have you heard from any Bertolini people

lately? I believe you keep up with Miss Lavish. It is odd how we of

that pension, who seemed such a fortuitous collection, have been

working into one another’s lives. Two, three, four, six of us—no,

eight; I had forgotten the Emersons—have kept more or less in touch. We

must really give the Signora a testimonial.”



And, Miss Bartlett not favouring the scheme, they walked up the hill in

a silence which was only broken by the rector naming some fern. On the

summit they paused. The sky had grown wilder since he stood there last

hour, giving to the land a tragic greatness that is rare in Surrey.

Grey clouds were charging across tissues of white, which stretched and

shredded and tore slowly, until through their final layers there

gleamed a hint of the disappearing blue. Summer was retreating. The

wind roared, the trees groaned, yet the noise seemed insufficient for

those vast operations in heaven. The weather was breaking up, breaking,

broken, and it is a sense of the fit rather than of the supernatural

that equips such crises with the salvos of angelic artillery. Mr.

Beebe’s eyes rested on Windy Corner, where Lucy sat, practising Mozart.

No smile came to his lips, and, changing the subject again, he said:

“We shan’t have rain, but we shall have darkness, so let us hurry on.

The darkness last night was appalling.”



They reached the Beehive Tavern at about five o’clock. That amiable

hostelry possesses a verandah, in which the young and the unwise do

dearly love to sit, while guests of more mature years seek a pleasant

sanded room, and have tea at a table comfortably. Mr. Beebe saw that

Miss Bartlett would be cold if she sat out, and that Minnie would be

dull if she sat in, so he proposed a division of forces. They would

hand the child her food through the window. Thus he was incidentally

enabled to discuss the fortunes of Lucy.



“I have been thinking, Miss Bartlett,” he said, “and, unless you very

much object, I would like to reopen that discussion.” She bowed.

“Nothing about the past. I know little and care less about that; I am

absolutely certain that it is to your cousin’s credit. She has acted

loftily and rightly, and it is like her gentle modesty to say that we

think too highly of her. But the future. Seriously, what do you think

of this Greek plan?” He pulled out the letter again. “I don’t know

whether you overheard, but she wants to join the Miss Alans in their

mad career. It’s all—I can’t explain—it’s wrong.”



Miss Bartlett read the letter in silence, laid it down, seemed to

hesitate, and then read it again.



“I can’t see the point of it myself.”



To his astonishment, she replied: “There I cannot agree with you. In it

I spy Lucy’s salvation.”



“Really. Now, why?”



“She wanted to leave Windy Corner.”



“I know—but it seems so odd, so unlike her, so—I was going to

say—selfish.”



“It is natural, surely—after such painful scenes—that she should desire

a change.”



Here, apparently, was one of those points that the male intellect

misses. Mr. Beebe exclaimed: “So she says herself, and since another

lady agrees with her, I must own that I am partially convinced. Perhaps

she must have a change. I have no sisters or—and I don’t understand

these things. But why need she go as far as Greece?”



“You may well ask that,” replied Miss Bartlett, who was evidently

interested, and had almost dropped her evasive manner. “Why Greece?

(What is it, Minnie dear—jam?) Why not Tunbridge Wells? Oh, Mr. Beebe!

I had a long and most unsatisfactory interview with dear Lucy this

morning. I cannot help her. I will say no more. Perhaps I have already

said too much. I am not to talk. I wanted her to spend six months with

me at Tunbridge Wells, and she refused.”



Mr. Beebe poked at a crumb with his knife.



“But my feelings are of no importance. I know too well that I get on

Lucy’s nerves. Our tour was a failure. She wanted to leave Florence,

and when we got to Rome she did not want to be in Rome, and all the

time I felt that I was spending her mother’s money—.”



“Let us keep to the future, though,” interrupted Mr. Beebe. “I want

your advice.”



“Very well,” said Charlotte, with a choky abruptness that was new to

him, though familiar to Lucy. “I for one will help her to go to Greece.

Will you?”



Mr. Beebe considered.



“It is absolutely necessary,” she continued, lowering her veil and

whispering through it with a passion, an intensity, that surprised him.

“I know—I _know_.” The darkness was coming on, and he felt that this

odd woman really did know. “She must not stop here a moment, and we

must keep quiet till she goes. I trust that the servants know nothing.

Afterwards—but I may have said too much already. Only, Lucy and I are

helpless against Mrs. Honeychurch alone. If you help we may succeed.

Otherwise—”



“Otherwise—?”



“Otherwise,” she repeated as if the word held finality.



“Yes, I will help her,” said the clergyman, setting his jaw firm.

“Come, let us go back now, and settle the whole thing up.”



Miss Bartlett burst into florid gratitude. The tavern sign—a beehive

trimmed evenly with bees—creaked in the wind outside as she thanked

him. Mr. Beebe did not quite understand the situation; but then, he did

not desire to understand it, nor to jump to the conclusion of “another

man” that would have attracted a grosser mind. He only felt that Miss

Bartlett knew of some vague influence from which the girl desired to be

delivered, and which might well be clothed in the fleshly form. Its

very vagueness spurred him into knight-errantry. His belief in

celibacy, so reticent, so carefully concealed beneath his tolerance and

culture, now came to the surface and expanded like some delicate

flower. “They that marry do well, but they that refrain do better.” So

ran his belief, and he never heard that an engagement was broken off

but with a slight feeling of pleasure. In the case of Lucy, the feeling

was intensified through dislike of Cecil; and he was willing to go

further—to place her out of danger until she could confirm her

resolution of virginity. The feeling was very subtle and quite

undogmatic, and he never imparted it to any other of the characters in

this entanglement. Yet it existed, and it alone explains his action

subsequently, and his influence on the action of others. The compact

that he made with Miss Bartlett in the tavern, was to help not only

Lucy, but religion also.



They hurried home through a world of black and grey. He conversed on

indifferent topics: the Emersons’ need of a housekeeper; servants;

Italian servants; novels about Italy; novels with a purpose; could

literature influence life? Windy Corner glimmered. In the garden, Mrs.

Honeychurch, now helped by Freddy, still wrestled with the lives of her

flowers.



“It gets too dark,” she said hopelessly. “This comes of putting off. We

might have known the weather would break up soon; and now Lucy wants to

go to Greece. I don’t know what the world’s coming to.”



“Mrs. Honeychurch,” he said, “go to Greece she must. Come up to the

house and let’s talk it over. Do you, in the first place, mind her

breaking with Vyse?”



“Mr. Beebe, I’m thankful—simply thankful.”



“So am I,” said Freddy.



“Good. Now come up to the house.”



They conferred in the dining-room for half an hour.



Lucy would never have carried the Greek scheme alone. It was expensive

and dramatic—both qualities that her mother loathed. Nor would

Charlotte have succeeded. The honours of the day rested with Mr. Beebe.

By his tact and common sense, and by his influence as a clergyman—for a

clergyman who was not a fool influenced Mrs. Honeychurch greatly—he

bent her to their purpose, “I don’t see why Greece is necessary,” she

said; “but as you do, I suppose it is all right. It must be something I

can’t understand. Lucy! Let’s tell her. Lucy!”



“She is playing the piano,” Mr. Beebe said. He opened the door, and

heard the words of a song:



“Look not thou on beauty’s charming.”





“I didn’t know that Miss Honeychurch sang, too.”



“Sit thou still when kings are arming,

Taste not when the wine-cup glistens——”





“It’s a song that Cecil gave her. How odd girls are!”



“What’s that?” called Lucy, stopping short.



“All right, dear,” said Mrs. Honeychurch kindly. She went into the

drawing-room, and Mr. Beebe heard her kiss Lucy and say: “I am sorry I

was so cross about Greece, but it came on the top of the dahlias.”



Rather a hard voice said: “Thank you, mother; that doesn’t matter a

bit.”



“And you are right, too—Greece will be all right; you can go if the

Miss Alans will have you.”



“Oh, splendid! Oh, thank you!”



Mr. Beebe followed. Lucy still sat at the piano with her hands over the

keys. She was glad, but he had expected greater gladness. Her mother

bent over her. Freddy, to whom she had been singing, reclined on the

floor with his head against her, and an unlit pipe between his lips.

Oddly enough, the group was beautiful. Mr. Beebe, who loved the art of

the past, was reminded of a favourite theme, the _Santa Conversazione_,

in which people who care for one another are painted chatting together

about noble things—a theme neither sensual nor sensational, and

therefore ignored by the art of to-day. Why should Lucy want either to

marry or to travel when she had such friends at home?



“Taste not when the wine-cup glistens,

Speak not when the people listens,”





she continued.



“Here’s Mr. Beebe.”



“Mr. Beebe knows my rude ways.”



“It’s a beautiful song and a wise one,” said he. “Go on.”



“It isn’t very good,” she said listlessly. “I forget why—harmony or

something.”



“I suspected it was unscholarly. It’s so beautiful.”



“The tune’s right enough,” said Freddy, “but the words are rotten. Why

throw up the sponge?”



“How stupidly you talk!” said his sister. The _Santa Conversazione_ was

broken up. After all, there was no reason that Lucy should talk about

Greece or thank him for persuading her mother, so he said good-bye.



Freddy lit his bicycle lamp for him in the porch, and with his usual

felicity of phrase, said: “This has been a day and a half.”



“Stop thine ear against the singer—”





“Wait a minute; she is finishing.”



“From the red gold keep thy finger;

Vacant heart and hand and eye

Easy live and quiet die.”





“I love weather like this,” said Freddy.



Mr. Beebe passed into it.



The two main facts were clear. She had behaved splendidly, and he had

helped her. He could not expect to master the details of so big a

change in a girl’s life. If here and there he was dissatisfied or

puzzled, he must acquiesce; she was choosing the better part.



“Vacant heart and hand and eye—”





Perhaps the song stated “the better part” rather too strongly. He half

fancied that the soaring accompaniment—which he did not lose in the

shout of the gale—really agreed with Freddy, and was gently criticizing

the words that it adorned:



“Vacant heart and hand and eye

Easy live and quiet die.”





However, for the fourth time Windy Corner lay poised below him—now as a

beacon in the roaring tides of darkness.









Chapter XIX

Lying to Mr. Emerson





The Miss Alans were found in their beloved temperance hotel near

Bloomsbury—a clean, airless establishment much patronized by provincial

England. They always perched there before crossing the great seas, and

for a week or two would fidget gently over clothes, guide-books,

mackintosh squares, digestive bread, and other Continental necessaries.

That there are shops abroad, even in Athens, never occurred to them,

for they regarded travel as a species of warfare, only to be undertaken

by those who have been fully armed at the Haymarket Stores. Miss

Honeychurch, they trusted, would take care to equip herself duly.

Quinine could now be obtained in tabloids; paper soap was a great help

towards freshening up one’s face in the train. Lucy promised, a little

depressed.



“But, of course, you know all about these things, and you have Mr. Vyse

to help you. A gentleman is such a stand-by.”



Mrs. Honeychurch, who had come up to town with her daughter, began to

drum nervously upon her card-case.



“We think it so good of Mr. Vyse to spare you,” Miss Catharine

continued. “It is not every young man who would be so unselfish. But

perhaps he will come out and join you later on.”



“Or does his work keep him in London?” said Miss Teresa, the more acute

and less kindly of the two sisters.



“However, we shall see him when he sees you off. I do so long to see

him.”



“No one will see Lucy off,” interposed Mrs. Honeychurch. “She doesn’t

like it.”



“No, I hate seeings-off,” said Lucy.



“Really? How funny! I should have thought that in this case—”



“Oh, Mrs. Honeychurch, you aren’t going? It is such a pleasure to have

met you!”



They escaped, and Lucy said with relief: “That’s all right. We just got

through that time.”



But her mother was annoyed. “I should be told, dear, that I am

unsympathetic. But I cannot see why you didn’t tell your friends about

Cecil and be done with it. There all the time we had to sit fencing,

and almost telling lies, and be seen through, too, I dare say, which is

most unpleasant.”



Lucy had plenty to say in reply. She described the Miss Alans’

character: they were such gossips, and if one told them, the news would

be everywhere in no time.



“But why shouldn’t it be everywhere in no time?”



“Because I settled with Cecil not to announce it until I left England.

I shall tell them then. It’s much pleasanter. How wet it is! Let’s turn

in here.”



“Here” was the British Museum. Mrs. Honeychurch refused. If they must

take shelter, let it be in a shop. Lucy felt contemptuous, for she was

on the tack of caring for Greek sculpture, and had already borrowed a

mythical dictionary from Mr. Beebe to get up the names of the goddesses

and gods.



“Oh, well, let it be shop, then. Let’s go to Mudie’s. I’ll buy a

guide-book.”



“You know, Lucy, you and Charlotte and Mr. Beebe all tell me I’m so

stupid, so I suppose I am, but I shall never understand this

hole-and-corner work. You’ve got rid of Cecil—well and good, and I’m

thankful he’s gone, though I did feel angry for the minute. But why not

announce it? Why this hushing up and tip-toeing?”



“It’s only for a few days.”



“But why at all?”



Lucy was silent. She was drifting away from her mother. It was quite

easy to say, “Because George Emerson has been bothering me, and if he

hears I’ve given up Cecil may begin again”—quite easy, and it had the

incidental advantage of being true. But she could not say it. She

disliked confidences, for they might lead to self-knowledge and to that

king of terrors—Light. Ever since that last evening at Florence she had

deemed it unwise to reveal her soul.



Mrs. Honeychurch, too, was silent. She was thinking, “My daughter won’t

answer me; she would rather be with those inquisitive old maids than

with Freddy and me. Any rag, tag, and bobtail apparently does if she

can leave her home.” And as in her case thoughts never remained

unspoken long, she burst out with: “You’re tired of Windy Corner.”



This was perfectly true. Lucy had hoped to return to Windy Corner when

she escaped from Cecil, but she discovered that her home existed no

longer. It might exist for Freddy, who still lived and thought

straight, but not for one who had deliberately warped the brain. She

did not acknowledge that her brain was warped, for the brain itself

must assist in that acknowledgment, and she was disordering the very

instruments of life. She only felt, “I do not love George; I broke off

my engagement because I did not love George; I must go to Greece

because I do not love George; it is more important that I should look

up gods in the dictionary than that I should help my mother; everyone

else is behaving very badly.” She only felt irritable and petulant, and

anxious to do what she was not expected to do, and in this spirit she

proceeded with the conversation.



“Oh, mother, what rubbish you talk! Of course I’m not tired of Windy

Corner.”



“Then why not say so at once, instead of considering half an hour?”



She laughed faintly, “Half a _minute_ would be nearer.”



“Perhaps you would like to stay away from your home altogether?”



“Hush, mother! People will hear you”; for they had entered Mudie’s. She

bought Baedeker, and then continued: “Of course I want to live at home;

but as we are talking about it, I may as well say that I shall want to

be away in the future more than I have been. You see, I come into my

money next year.”



Tears came into her mother’s eyes.



Driven by nameless bewilderment, by what is in older people termed

“eccentricity,” Lucy determined to make this point clear. “I’ve seen

the world so little—I felt so out of things in Italy. I have seen so

little of life; one ought to come up to London more—not a cheap ticket

like to-day, but to stop. I might even share a flat for a little with

some other girl.”



“And mess with typewriters and latch-keys,” exploded Mrs. Honeychurch.

“And agitate and scream, and be carried off kicking by the police. And

call it a Mission—when no one wants you! And call it Duty—when it means

that you can’t stand your own home! And call it Work—when thousands of

men are starving with the competition as it is! And then to prepare

yourself, find two doddering old ladies, and go abroad with them.”



“I want more independence,” said Lucy lamely; she knew that she wanted

something, and independence is a useful cry; we can always say that we

have not got it. She tried to remember her emotions in Florence: those

had been sincere and passionate, and had suggested beauty rather than

short skirts and latch-keys. But independence was certainly her cue.



“Very well. Take your independence and be gone. Rush up and down and

round the world, and come back as thin as a lath with the bad food.

Despise the house that your father built and the garden that he

planted, and our dear view—and then share a flat with another girl.”



Lucy screwed up her mouth and said: “Perhaps I spoke hastily.”



“Oh, goodness!” her mother flashed. “How you do remind me of Charlotte

Bartlett!”



“_Charlotte?_” flashed Lucy in her turn, pierced at last by a vivid

pain.



“More every moment.”



“I don’t know what you mean, mother; Charlotte and I are not the very

least alike.”



“Well, I see the likeness. The same eternal worrying, the same taking

back of words. You and Charlotte trying to divide two apples among

three people last night might be sisters.”



“What rubbish! And if you dislike Charlotte so, it’s rather a pity you

asked her to stop. I warned you about her; I begged you, implored you

not to, but of course it was not listened to.”



“There you go.”



“I beg your pardon?”



“Charlotte again, my dear; that’s all; her very words.”



Lucy clenched her teeth. “My point is that you oughtn’t to have asked

Charlotte to stop. I wish you would keep to the point.” And the

conversation died off into a wrangle.



She and her mother shopped in silence, spoke little in the train,

little again in the carriage, which met them at Dorking Station. It had

poured all day and as they ascended through the deep Surrey lanes

showers of water fell from the over-hanging beech-trees and rattled on

the hood. Lucy complained that the hood was stuffy. Leaning forward,

she looked out into the steaming dusk, and watched the carriage-lamp

pass like a search-light over mud and leaves, and reveal nothing

beautiful. “The crush when Charlotte gets in will be abominable,” she

remarked. For they were to pick up Miss Bartlett at Summer Street,

where she had been dropped as the carriage went down, to pay a call on

Mr. Beebe’s old mother. “We shall have to sit three a side, because the

trees drop, and yet it isn’t raining. Oh, for a little air!” Then she

listened to the horse’s hoofs—“He has not told—he has not told.” That

melody was blurred by the soft road. “_Can’t_ we have the hood down?”

she demanded, and her mother, with sudden tenderness, said: “Very well,

old lady, stop the horse.” And the horse was stopped, and Lucy and

Powell wrestled with the hood, and squirted water down Mrs.

Honeychurch’s neck. But now that the hood was down, she did see

something that she would have missed—there were no lights in the

windows of Cissie Villa, and round the garden gate she fancied she saw

a padlock.



“Is that house to let again, Powell?” she called.



“Yes, miss,” he replied.



“Have they gone?”



“It is too far out of town for the young gentleman, and his father’s

rheumatism has come on, so he can’t stop on alone, so they are trying

to let furnished,” was the answer.



“They have gone, then?”



“Yes, miss, they have gone.”



Lucy sank back. The carriage stopped at the Rectory. She got out to

call for Miss Bartlett. So the Emersons had gone, and all this bother

about Greece had been unnecessary. Waste! That word seemed to sum up

the whole of life. Wasted plans, wasted money, wasted love, and she had

wounded her mother. Was it possible that she had muddled things away?

Quite possible. Other people had. When the maid opened the door, she

was unable to speak, and stared stupidly into the hall.



Miss Bartlett at once came forward, and after a long preamble asked a

great favour: might she go to church? Mr. Beebe and his mother had

already gone, but she had refused to start until she obtained her

hostess’s full sanction, for it would mean keeping the horse waiting a

good ten minutes more.



“Certainly,” said the hostess wearily. “I forgot it was Friday. Let’s

all go. Powell can go round to the stables.”



“Lucy dearest—”



“No church for me, thank you.”



A sigh, and they departed. The church was invisible, but up in the

darkness to the left there was a hint of colour. This was a stained

window, through which some feeble light was shining, and when the door

opened Lucy heard Mr. Beebe’s voice running through the litany to a

minute congregation. Even their church, built upon the slope of the

hill so artfully, with its beautiful raised transept and its spire of

silvery shingle—even their church had lost its charm; and the thing one

never talked about—religion—was fading like all the other things.



She followed the maid into the Rectory.



Would she object to sitting in Mr. Beebe’s study? There was only that

one fire.



She would not object.



Some one was there already, for Lucy heard the words: “A lady to wait,

sir.”



Old Mr. Emerson was sitting by the fire, with his foot upon a

gout-stool.



“Oh, Miss Honeychurch, that you should come!” he quavered; and Lucy saw

an alteration in him since last Sunday.



Not a word would come to her lips. George she had faced, and could have

faced again, but she had forgotten how to treat his father.



“Miss Honeychurch, dear, we are so sorry! George is so sorry! He

thought he had a right to try. I cannot blame my boy, and yet I wish he

had told me first. He ought not to have tried. I knew nothing about it

at all.”



If only she could remember how to behave!



He held up his hand. “But you must not scold him.”



Lucy turned her back, and began to look at Mr. Beebe’s books.



“I taught him,” he quavered, “to trust in love. I said: ‘When love

comes, that is reality.’ I said: ‘Passion does not blind. No. Passion

is sanity, and the woman you love, she is the only person you will ever

really understand.’” He sighed: “True, everlastingly true, though my

day is over, and though there is the result. Poor boy! He is so sorry!

He said he knew it was madness when you brought your cousin in; that

whatever you felt you did not mean. Yet”—his voice gathered strength:

he spoke out to make certain—“Miss Honeychurch, do you remember Italy?”



Lucy selected a book—a volume of Old Testament commentaries. Holding it

up to her eyes, she said: “I have no wish to discuss Italy or any

subject connected with your son.”



“But you do remember it?”



“He has misbehaved himself from the first.”



“I only was told that he loved you last Sunday. I never could judge

behaviour. I—I—suppose he has.”



Feeling a little steadier, she put the book back and turned round to

him. His face was drooping and swollen, but his eyes, though they were

sunken deep, gleamed with a child’s courage.



“Why, he has behaved abominably,” she said. “I am glad he is sorry. Do

you know what he did?”



“Not ‘abominably,’” was the gentle correction. “He only tried when he

should not have tried. You have all you want, Miss Honeychurch: you are

going to marry the man you love. Do not go out of George’s life saying

he is abominable.”



“No, of course,” said Lucy, ashamed at the reference to Cecil.

“‘Abominable’ is much too strong. I am sorry I used it about your son.

I think I will go to church, after all. My mother and my cousin have

gone. I shall not be so very late—”



“Especially as he has gone under,” he said quietly.



“What was that?”



“Gone under naturally.” He beat his palms together in silence; his head

fell on his chest.



“I don’t understand.”



“As his mother did.”



“But, Mr. Emerson—_Mr. Emerson_—what are you talking about?”



“When I wouldn’t have George baptized,” said he.



Lucy was frightened.



“And she agreed that baptism was nothing, but he caught that fever when

he was twelve and she turned round. She thought it a judgement.” He

shuddered. “Oh, horrible, when we had given up that sort of thing and

broken away from her parents. Oh, horrible—worst of all—worse than

death, when you have made a little clearing in the wilderness, planted

your little garden, let in your sunlight, and then the weeds creep in

again! A judgement! And our boy had typhoid because no clergyman had

dropped water on him in church! Is it possible, Miss Honeychurch? Shall

we slip back into the darkness for ever?”



“I don’t know,” gasped Lucy. “I don’t understand this sort of thing. I

was not meant to understand it.”



“But Mr. Eager—he came when I was out, and acted according to his

principles. I don’t blame him or any one... but by the time George was

well she was ill. He made her think about sin, and she went under

thinking about it.”



It was thus that Mr. Emerson had murdered his wife in the sight of God.



“Oh, how terrible!” said Lucy, forgetting her own affairs at last.



“He was not baptized,” said the old man. “I did hold firm.” And he

looked with unwavering eyes at the rows of books, as if—at what

cost!—he had won a victory over them. “My boy shall go back to the

earth untouched.”



She asked whether young Mr. Emerson was ill.



“Oh—last Sunday.” He started into the present. “George last Sunday—no,

not ill: just gone under. He is never ill. But he is his mother’s son.

Her eyes were his, and she had that forehead that I think so beautiful,

and he will not think it worth while to live. It was always touch and

go. He will live; but he will not think it worth while to live. He will

never think anything worth while. You remember that church at

Florence?”



Lucy did remember, and how she had suggested that George should collect

postage stamps.



“After you left Florence—horrible. Then we took the house here, and he

goes bathing with your brother, and became better. You saw him

bathing?”



“I am so sorry, but it is no good discussing this affair. I am deeply

sorry about it.”



“Then there came something about a novel. I didn’t follow it at all; I

had to hear so much, and he minded telling me; he finds me too old. Ah,

well, one must have failures. George comes down to-morrow, and takes me

up to his London rooms. He can’t bear to be about here, and I must be

where he is.”



“Mr. Emerson,” cried the girl, “don’t leave at least, not on my

account. I am going to Greece. Don’t leave your comfortable house.”



It was the first time her voice had been kind and he smiled. “How good

everyone is! And look at Mr. Beebe housing me—came over this morning

and heard I was going! Here I am so comfortable with a fire.”



“Yes, but you won’t go back to London. It’s absurd.”



“I must be with George; I must make him care to live, and down here he

can’t. He says the thought of seeing you and of hearing about you—I am

not justifying him: I am only saying what has happened.”



“Oh, Mr. Emerson”—she took hold of his hand—“you mustn’t. I’ve been

bother enough to the world by now. I can’t have you moving out of your

house when you like it, and perhaps losing money through it—all on my

account. You must stop! I am just going to Greece.”



“All the way to Greece?”



Her manner altered.



“To Greece?”



“So you must stop. You won’t talk about this business, I know. I can

trust you both.”



“Certainly you can. We either have you in our lives, or leave you to

the life that you have chosen.”



“I shouldn’t want—”



“I suppose Mr. Vyse is very angry with George? No, it was wrong of

George to try. We have pushed our beliefs too far. I fancy that we

deserve sorrow.”



She looked at the books again—black, brown, and that acrid theological

blue. They surrounded the visitors on every side; they were piled on

the tables, they pressed against the very ceiling. To Lucy who could

not see that Mr. Emerson was profoundly religious, and differed from

Mr. Beebe chiefly by his acknowledgment of passion—it seemed dreadful

that the old man should crawl into such a sanctum, when he was unhappy,

and be dependent on the bounty of a clergyman.



More certain than ever that she was tired, he offered her his chair.



“No, please sit still. I think I will sit in the carriage.”



“Miss Honeychurch, you do sound tired.”



“Not a bit,” said Lucy, with trembling lips.



“But you are, and there’s a look of George about you. And what were you

saying about going abroad?”



She was silent.



“Greece”—and she saw that he was thinking the word over—“Greece; but

you were to be married this year, I thought.”



“Not till January, it wasn’t,” said Lucy, clasping her hands. Would she

tell an actual lie when it came to the point?



“I suppose that Mr. Vyse is going with you. I hope—it isn’t because

George spoke that you are both going?”



“No.”



“I hope that you will enjoy Greece with Mr. Vyse.”



“Thank you.”



At that moment Mr. Beebe came back from church. His cassock was covered

with rain. “That’s all right,” he said kindly. “I counted on you two

keeping each other company. It’s pouring again. The entire

congregation, which consists of your cousin, your mother, and my

mother, stands waiting in the church, till the carriage fetches it. Did

Powell go round?”



“I think so; I’ll see.”



“No—of course, I’ll see. How are the Miss Alans?”



“Very well, thank you.”



“Did you tell Mr. Emerson about Greece?”



“I—I did.”



“Don’t you think it very plucky of her, Mr. Emerson, to undertake the

two Miss Alans? Now, Miss Honeychurch, go back—keep warm. I think three

is such a courageous number to go travelling.” And he hurried off to

the stables.



“He is not going,” she said hoarsely. “I made a slip. Mr. Vyse does

stop behind in England.”



Somehow it was impossible to cheat this old man. To George, to Cecil,

she would have lied again; but he seemed so near the end of things, so

dignified in his approach to the gulf, of which he gave one account,

and the books that surrounded him another, so mild to the rough paths

that he had traversed, that the true chivalry—not the worn-out chivalry

of sex, but the true chivalry that all the young may show to all the

old—awoke in her, and, at whatever risk, she told him that Cecil was

not her companion to Greece. And she spoke so seriously that the risk

became a certainty, and he, lifting his eyes, said: “You are leaving

him? You are leaving the man you love?”



“I—I had to.”



“Why, Miss Honeychurch, why?”



Terror came over her, and she lied again. She made the long, convincing

speech that she had made to Mr. Beebe, and intended to make to the

world when she announced that her engagement was no more. He heard her

in silence, and then said: “My dear, I am worried about you. It seems

to me”—dreamily; she was not alarmed—“that you are in a muddle.”



She shook her head.



“Take an old man’s word; there’s nothing worse than a muddle in all the

world. It is easy to face Death and Fate, and the things that sound so

dreadful. It is on my muddles that I look back with horror—on the

things that I might have avoided. We can help one another but little. I

used to think I could teach young people the whole of life, but I know

better now, and all my teaching of George has come down to this: beware

of muddle. Do you remember in that church, when you pretended to be

annoyed with me and weren’t? Do you remember before, when you refused

the room with the view? Those were muddles—little, but ominous—and I am

fearing that you are in one now.” She was silent. “Don’t trust me, Miss

Honeychurch. Though life is very glorious, it is difficult.” She was

still silent. “‘Life’ wrote a friend of mine, ‘is a public performance

on the violin, in which you must learn the instrument as you go along.’

I think he puts it well. Man has to pick up the use of his functions as

he goes along—especially the function of Love.” Then he burst out

excitedly; “That’s it; that’s what I mean. You love George!” And after

his long preamble, the three words burst against Lucy like waves from

the open sea.



“But you do,” he went on, not waiting for contradiction. “You love the

boy body and soul, plainly, directly, as he loves you, and no other

word expresses it. You won’t marry the other man for his sake.”



“How dare you!” gasped Lucy, with the roaring of waters in her ears.

“Oh, how like a man!—I mean, to suppose that a woman is always thinking

about a man.”



“But you are.”



She summoned physical disgust.



“You’re shocked, but I mean to shock you. It’s the only hope at times.

I can reach you no other way. You must marry, or your life will be

wasted. You have gone too far to retreat. I have no time for the

tenderness, and the comradeship, and the poetry, and the things that

really matter, and _for which_ you marry. I know that, with George, you

will find them, and that you love him. Then be his wife. He is already

part of you. Though you fly to Greece, and never see him again, or

forget his very name, George will work in your thoughts till you die.

It isn’t possible to love and to part. You will wish that it was. You

can transmute love, ignore it, muddle it, but you can never pull it out

of you. I know by experience that the poets are right: love is

eternal.”



Lucy began to cry with anger, and though her anger passed away soon,

her tears remained.



“I only wish poets would say this, too: love is of the body; not the

body, but of the body. Ah! the misery that would be saved if we

confessed that! Ah! for a little directness to liberate the soul! Your

soul, dear Lucy! I hate the word now, because of all the cant with

which superstition has wrapped it round. But we have souls. I cannot

say how they came nor whither they go, but we have them, and I see you

ruining yours. I cannot bear it. It is again the darkness creeping in;

it is hell.” Then he checked himself. “What nonsense I have talked—how

abstract and remote! And I have made you cry! Dear girl, forgive my

prosiness; marry my boy. When I think what life is, and how seldom love

is answered by love—Marry him; it is one of the moments for which the

world was made.”



She could not understand him; the words were indeed remote. Yet as he

spoke the darkness was withdrawn, veil after veil, and she saw to the

bottom of her soul.



“Then, Lucy—”



“You’ve frightened me,” she moaned. “Cecil—Mr. Beebe—the ticket’s

bought—everything.” She fell sobbing into the chair. “I’m caught in the

tangle. I must suffer and grow old away from him. I cannot break the

whole of life for his sake. They trusted me.”



A carriage drew up at the front-door.



“Give George my love—once only. Tell him ‘muddle.’” Then she arranged

her veil, while the tears poured over her cheeks inside.



“Lucy—”



“No—they are in the hall—oh, please not, Mr. Emerson—they trust me—”



“But why should they, when you have deceived them?”



Mr. Beebe opened the door, saying: “Here’s my mother.”



“You’re not worthy of their trust.”



“What’s that?” said Mr. Beebe sharply.



“I was saying, why should you trust her when she deceived you?”



“One minute, mother.” He came in and shut the door.



“I don’t follow you, Mr. Emerson. To whom do you refer? Trust whom?”



“I mean she has pretended to you that she did not love George. They

have loved one another all along.”



Mr. Beebe looked at the sobbing girl. He was very quiet, and his white

face, with its ruddy whiskers, seemed suddenly inhuman. A long black

column, he stood and awaited her reply.



“I shall never marry him,” quavered Lucy.



A look of contempt came over him, and he said, “Why not?”



“Mr. Beebe—I have misled you—I have misled myself—”



“Oh, rubbish, Miss Honeychurch!”



“It is not rubbish!” said the old man hotly. “It’s the part of people

that you don’t understand.”



Mr. Beebe laid his hand on the old man’s shoulder pleasantly.



“Lucy! Lucy!” called voices from the carriage.



“Mr. Beebe, could you help me?”



He looked amazed at the request, and said in a low, stern voice: “I am

more grieved than I can possibly express. It is lamentable,

lamentable—incredible.”



“What’s wrong with the boy?” fired up the other again.



“Nothing, Mr. Emerson, except that he no longer interests me. Marry

George, Miss Honeychurch. He will do admirably.”



He walked out and left them. They heard him guiding his mother

up-stairs.



“Lucy!” the voices called.



She turned to Mr. Emerson in despair. But his face revived her. It was

the face of a saint who understood.



“Now it is all dark. Now Beauty and Passion seem never to have existed.

I know. But remember the mountains over Florence and the view. Ah,

dear, if I were George, and gave you one kiss, it would make you brave.

You have to go cold into a battle that needs warmth, out into the

muddle that you have made yourself; and your mother and all your

friends will despise you, oh, my darling, and rightly, if it is ever

right to despise. George still dark, all the tussle and the misery

without a word from him. Am I justified?” Into his own eyes tears came.

“Yes, for we fight for more than Love or Pleasure; there is Truth.

Truth counts, Truth does count.”



“You kiss me,” said the girl. “You kiss me. I will try.”



He gave her a sense of deities reconciled, a feeling that, in gaining

the man she loved, she would gain something for the whole world.

Throughout the squalor of her homeward drive—she spoke at once—his

salutation remained. He had robbed the body of its taint, the world’s

taunts of their sting; he had shown her the holiness of direct desire.

She “never exactly understood,” she would say in after years, “how he

managed to strengthen her. It was as if he had made her see the whole

of everything at once.”









Chapter XX

The End of the Middle Ages





The Miss Alans did go to Greece, but they went by themselves. They

alone of this little company will double Malea and plough the waters of

the Saronic gulf. They alone will visit Athens and Delphi, and either

shrine of intellectual song—that upon the Acropolis, encircled by blue

seas; that under Parnassus, where the eagles build and the bronze

charioteer drives undismayed towards infinity. Trembling, anxious,

cumbered with much digestive bread, they did proceed to Constantinople,

they did go round the world. The rest of us must be contented with a

fair, but a less arduous, goal. Italiam petimus: we return to the

Pension Bertolini.



George said it was his old room.



“No, it isn’t,” said Lucy; “because it is the room I had, and I had

your father’s room. I forget why; Charlotte made me, for some reason.”



He knelt on the tiled floor, and laid his face in her lap.



“George, you baby, get up.”



“Why shouldn’t I be a baby?” murmured George.



Unable to answer this question, she put down his sock, which she was

trying to mend, and gazed out through the window. It was evening and

again the spring.



“Oh, bother Charlotte,” she said thoughtfully. “What can such people be

made of?”



“Same stuff as parsons are made of.”



“Nonsense!”



“Quite right. It is nonsense.”



“Now you get up off the cold floor, or you’ll be starting rheumatism

next, and you stop laughing and being so silly.”



“Why shouldn’t I laugh?” he asked, pinning her with his elbows, and

advancing his face to hers. “What’s there to cry at? Kiss me here.” He

indicated the spot where a kiss would be welcome.



He was a boy after all. When it came to the point, it was she who

remembered the past, she into whose soul the iron had entered, she who

knew whose room this had been last year. It endeared him to her

strangely that he should be sometimes wrong.



“Any letters?” he asked.



“Just a line from Freddy.”



“Now kiss me here; then here.”



Then, threatened again with rheumatism, he strolled to the window,

opened it (as the English will), and leant out. There was the parapet,

there the river, there to the left the beginnings of the hills. The

cab-driver, who at once saluted him with the hiss of a serpent, might

be that very Phaethon who had set this happiness in motion twelve

months ago. A passion of gratitude—all feelings grow to passions in the

South—came over the husband, and he blessed the people and the things

who had taken so much trouble about a young fool. He had helped

himself, it is true, but how stupidly!



All the fighting that mattered had been done by others—by Italy, by his

father, by his wife.



“Lucy, you come and look at the cypresses; and the church, whatever its

name is, still shows.”



“San Miniato. I’ll just finish your sock.”



“Signorino, domani faremo uno giro,” called the cabman, with engaging

certainty.



George told him that he was mistaken; they had no money to throw away

on driving.



And the people who had not meant to help—the Miss Lavishes, the Cecils,

the Miss Bartletts! Ever prone to magnify Fate, George counted up the

forces that had swept him into this contentment.



“Anything good in Freddy’s letter?”



“Not yet.”



His own content was absolute, but hers held bitterness: the

Honeychurches had not forgiven them; they were disgusted at her past

hypocrisy; she had alienated Windy Corner, perhaps for ever.



“What does he say?”



“Silly boy! He thinks he’s being dignified. He knew we should go off in

the spring—he has known it for six months—that if mother wouldn’t give

her consent we should take the thing into our own hands. They had fair

warning, and now he calls it an elopement. Ridiculous boy—”



“Signorino, domani faremo uno giro—”



“But it will all come right in the end. He has to build us both up from

the beginning again. I wish, though, that Cecil had not turned so

cynical about women. He has, for the second time, quite altered. Why

will men have theories about women? I haven’t any about men. I wish,

too, that Mr. Beebe—”



“You may well wish that.”



“He will never forgive us—I mean, he will never be interested in us

again. I wish that he did not influence them so much at Windy Corner. I

wish he hadn’t—But if we act the truth, the people who really love us

are sure to come back to us in the long run.”



“Perhaps.” Then he said more gently: “Well, I acted the truth—the only

thing I did do—and you came back to me. So possibly you know.” He

turned back into the room. “Nonsense with that sock.” He carried her to

the window, so that she, too, saw all the view. They sank upon their

knees, invisible from the road, they hoped, and began to whisper one

another’s names. Ah! it was worth while; it was the great joy that they

had expected, and countless little joys of which they had never dreamt.

They were silent.



“Signorino, domani faremo—”



“Oh, bother that man!”



But Lucy remembered the vendor of photographs and said, “No, don’t be

rude to him.” Then with a catching of her breath, she murmured: “Mr.

Eager and Charlotte, dreadful frozen Charlotte. How cruel she would be

to a man like that!”



“Look at the lights going over the bridge.”



“But this room reminds me of Charlotte. How horrible to grow old in

Charlotte’s way! To think that evening at the rectory that she

shouldn’t have heard your father was in the house. For she would have

stopped me going in, and he was the only person alive who could have

made me see sense. You couldn’t have made me. When I am very happy”—she

kissed him—“I remember on how little it all hangs. If Charlotte had

only known, she would have stopped me going in, and I should have gone

to silly Greece, and become different for ever.”



“But she did know,” said George; “she did see my father, surely. He

said so.”



“Oh, no, she didn’t see him. She was upstairs with old Mrs. Beebe,

don’t you remember, and then went straight to the church. She said so.”



George was obstinate again. “My father,” said he, “saw her, and I

prefer his word. He was dozing by the study fire, and he opened his

eyes, and there was Miss Bartlett. A few minutes before you came in.

She was turning to go as he woke up. He didn’t speak to her.”



Then they spoke of other things—the desultory talk of those who have

been fighting to reach one another, and whose reward is to rest quietly

in each other’s arms. It was long ere they returned to Miss Bartlett,

but when they did her behaviour seemed more interesting. George, who

disliked any darkness, said: “It’s clear that she knew. Then, why did

she risk the meeting? She knew he was there, and yet she went to

church.”



They tried to piece the thing together.



As they talked, an incredible solution came into Lucy’s mind. She

rejected it, and said: “How like Charlotte to undo her work by a feeble

muddle at the last moment.” But something in the dying evening, in the

roar of the river, in their very embrace warned them that her words

fell short of life, and George whispered: “Or did she mean it?”



“Mean what?”



“Signorino, domani faremo uno giro—”



Lucy bent forward and said with gentleness: “Lascia, prego, lascia.

Siamo sposati.”



“Scusi tanto, signora,” he replied in tones as gentle and whipped up

his horse.



“Buona sera—e grazie.”



“Niente.”



The cabman drove away singing.



“Mean what, George?”



He whispered: “Is it this? Is this possible? I’ll put a marvel to you.

That your cousin has always hoped. That from the very first moment we

met, she hoped, far down in her mind, that we should be like this—of

course, very far down. That she fought us on the surface, and yet she

hoped. I can’t explain her any other way. Can you? Look how she kept me

alive in you all the summer; how she gave you no peace; how month after

month she became more eccentric and unreliable. The sight of us haunted

her—or she couldn’t have described us as she did to her friend. There

are details—it burnt. I read the book afterwards. She is not frozen,

Lucy, she is not withered up all through. She tore us apart twice, but

in the rectory that evening she was given one more chance to make us

happy. We can never make friends with her or thank her. But I do

believe that, far down in her heart, far below all speech and

behaviour, she is glad.”



“It is impossible,” murmured Lucy, and then, remembering the

experiences of her own heart, she said: “No—it is just possible.”



Youth enwrapped them; the song of Phaethon announced passion requited,

love attained. But they were conscious of a love more mysterious than

this. The song died away; they heard the river, bearing down the snows

of winter into the Mediterranean.